speaker_21: Committee will come to order a quorum being present without objection. The chair has authorized to clear recess at any time. Pursuant to Committee Rule 2 and House Rule 11, Clause 2, the Chairman may postpone further proceedings today on the question of approving any measure or matter or adopting an amendment for which a recorded vote is ordered. Now recognize the gentleman from Oregon, Mr. Bentz, to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
speaker_20: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
speaker_21: to the republic for which it stands one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Pursuant to notice a call up HR 2640, the border security and enforcement act of 2023 for purposes of a markup and move that the committee reported favorably to the house. The clerk will report the bill.
speaker_0: H.R. 2640 to provide for reform.
speaker_21: Without objection, the bill will be considered as read an open for amendment at any point. The chair now recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. McClintock, for an opening statement.
speaker_9: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On inauguration day, our border was secure. The Trump policies had slowed illegal immigration to a trickle. And it was no coincidence that working Americans saw their wages grow faster than any time in 40 years, and the income gap between rich and poor was actually narrowing for the first time in decades. Well, that afternoon, Joe Biden changed all of that. The Democrats deliberately initiated the largest illegal mass migration in history. In the last 27 months, they have deliberately admitted two million illegal aliens into our country. That is larger. than the entire population of the state of Nebraska. And while the border patrol was overwhelmed, another 1.5 million known Godaways enters as well. That is an additional illegal population larger than the entire state of Hawaii. All of this in just 27 months. Well, for Americans, this means classrooms packed with non-English speaking students. It means hospitals flooded with illegal aliens demanding uncompensated care. It means violent criminal cartels and gangs introduced into our communities and sanctuary policies that make deportation of convicted criminal aliens all but impossible in most cases. It means a fentanyl epidemic claiming 300 American lives a day, the equivalent of two 737 jetliners crashing every day. It means suppressed wages for working families as the labor market is flooded with cheap illegal labor. A federal judge recently described the Democrats policy as quote, akin to posting a flashing, flashing come in, we're open sign at the southern border. For the growing millions responding to this invitation, It means 2,000 have died that we know of under hideous conditions. Countless thousands have been forced into indentured servitude to the cartels. And thousands of unaccompanied children have been abandoned to sexual and labor exploitation under horrific conditions. HR 2640, the Border Security and Enforcement Act combines legislation for Mr. Biggs, Mr. Roy, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana. Mr. Tiffany, Mr. Moran, and myself to restore the successful Trump policies and remove the rewards and incentives that the Democrats have used to entice millions of people to violate our nation's sovereignty. Title I reforms the asylum process to deter fraudulent asylum claims from aliens, including economic migrants, and assures that aliens granted asylum are truly being persecuted by their government. Title II stops rewarding fraudulent asylum claims with automatic admission to our country, free goods and services, cash payments, and indefinite residency and work authorization. It enforces the existing law that asylum claimants be detained or as an alternative in mandates restoring the Trump remain in Mexico policy and safe third country agreements. Title III fixes the disastrous Flores Settlement, the rewards illegal aliens who rent or buy children to pose as a family unit to avoid detention. Instead, it keeps legitimate families together as they await adjudication of their asylum claims in detention or in Mexico. Title IV requires that an unaccompanied child be immediately and safely returned to their home, as we already do for unaccompanied children from Mexico and Canada. rather than to allow them to be trafficked and abandoned and then exploited in our country. The child shows up at your door, you've got a moral obligation to get them home safely, not drop them off at a sweatshop or worse down the street. Our government's essentially doing that right now, and it's morally reprehensible. Title V applies the same penalties for visa overstays as we do for illegal border crossings. It's a misdemeanor to cross the border illegally, a felony to cross it repeatedly, and yet only an infraction to overstay a visa. A visa is just as important as a border, and the visa holder's violation should be treated the same. Prior to the Democrats opening our southern border to millions of illegal immigrants, nearly half of the illegal population in this country simply overstayed their visas. Title VI ends the abuse of parole authority to circumvent immigration law. Parole is inherently a case-by-case review based on individual circumstances in which the rigors of the law are inappropriate. Parole by category is not parole. It's a new law that should be considered and passed by Congress in a nation that respects the rule of law. In 27 months, the Democrats have allowed over 1 million migrants into the country through this abuse. Finally, Title VII enforces existing law that makes it illegal to hire an illegal alien. It requires U.S. employers to use the quick and easy electronic program known as E-Verify to verify the employment eligibility of their new hires. To bring order to the border and to resurrect respect for U.S. immigration law, the Border Security and Enforcement Act of 2023 is essential. I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Chair now recognizes the ranking member, Mr. Nadler, for an opening statement.
speaker_20: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, after three and a half months of Republican infighting and chaos, the Judiciary Committee is finally holding its first markup of legislation this Congress. Today, the committee is considering a massive piece of legislation, the so-called Border Security and Enforcement Act, which takes an extreme enforcement-only approach to the complex issue of immigration. Once again, my Republican colleagues shows they are not interested in finding real solutions to tough issues. This bill attempts to combine eight different bills, each one more cruel and heartless than the next, into one contradictory and overlapping mess. It is nothing more than pure political theater. This bill has no chance of being enacted into law, and most of its provisions cannot even pass on the House floor because of opposition from Republicans. That's right, these Republican bills are so extreme that they are opposed by many of their own members. One of the bills that Republicans attempted to combine in today's legislation is HR 29, the Border Safety and Security Act of 2023. One of our Republican colleagues from Texas characterized that bill by saying, quote, HR 29 does anything but secure the border. So guess what? That bill in particular, it's dead, close quote. Another one of our Republican colleagues questioned Republican leadership against moving only border security legislation, as we are doing today, saying, quote, we're talking about millions of people who do not have a dignified status. It's immoral. It's not Christian. And it's wrong that we as a society allow for millions and millions of people to live in the shadows, close quote. Another House Republicans said, quote, it will never pass the Senate if we're only talking border security, close quote. And these are just a few of the many comments I could pick from. Yet here we are today, and we are expected to believe that judiciary Republicans are putting forward real solutions to modernize and fix their immigration system. My Republican colleagues are trying to take us back to the failed illegal and immoral policies of the Trump administration. Former President Trump's radical, inhumane, and racist immigration actions weakened the U.S. economy, undermined our moral standard in the world, and did not make us any safer. His erratic approach also failed to stop the inflow of migrants while it trampled on American values. But incredibly, some of the proposal put forward by my colleagues actually go further than what the Trump administration even attempted to do. The bill before us today would completely gut, completely gut our asylum system. Take away protections for vulnerable children fleeing for their lives, destroy our economy, indefinitely detained children, make the situation at the border even worse. And that's just for starters. Immigration reform is a complex problem that requires comprehensive solutions, and an enforcement only strategy simply doesn't work. Democrats have put forward real proposals, and we stand ready to work with serious Republicans to pass meaningful solutions. Democrats take this complex humanitarian crisis seriously. Our proposals address the root causes of migration, improve border security, and create additional legal pathways for people to enter the United States lawfully. But Republicans have chosen a narrow path that imposes extreme pain and hardship on the most vulnerable people while doing nothing to actually solve the problem. I would ask my Republican colleagues to heed the advice of one of their own. Representative Tony Gonzalez, who represents 42% of the U.S.-Mexico border and do set of these bills, quote, if they try to jam them through, they're going to fail on the floor, so probably best to get it fixed ahead of time than see it go down in burning flames on the House floor. Close quote. I encourage my colleagues to oppose this wrong-headed bill, and I ask my Republican colleagues to go back to the drawing board. If you do, Democrats stand ready to work with you. I thank the chairman for yielding. I yield back the balance of my time.
speaker_21: Without objection, all of their opening statements will be included in the record. The chair now recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. McClintock, for the purpose of offering an amendment in the nature of a substitute.
speaker_9: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this amendment in the nature of a substitute makes technical changes to the bill.
speaker_21: You have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_9: I'm sorry. I have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_21: Clerk will report the amendment.
speaker_0: Amendment in the nature of a substitute to H.R. 2640 offered by Mr. McClintock.
speaker_21: Without objection, the amendment in the nature of a substitute will be considered as read and shall be considered the base text for the purposes of amendment. The chair recognizes Mr. McClintock to explain the amendment.
speaker_9: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this amendment makes technical changes to the bill. It adds a section to the bill repealing to Biden administration, Department of Labor regulations that place additional burdens on agricultural employers who are trying to do the right thing and use the H2A program instead of using illegal workers. I'd urge my colleagues to support the ANS and I yield the balance of my time to a man who's been the driving force in Congress for border security and immigration reform and in my opinion, an unsung hero, Mr. Biggs.
speaker_16: I thank the gentleman and I appreciate his comments, but I also appreciate all his effort and hard work on this bill and with regard to the ANS as well. You know, the border is overrun. And I wanna tell you about my experience back at the border again just last week, because I go off and I grew up in a border congressional district So we were driving along the Tihona-Otum Reservation that has 62 linear miles of the Arizona-Mexico border. Just last Thursday, we'd been down to the BAMRI-Wast and check out the new, the bridge that was there, that the first time that is a big wide wash, gets filled with water. It's used frequently by human traffickers and drug smugglers, and they built a bridge over it. It's great. but it's only about six feet high, so the first big rain they had washed over the bridge so that CBP couldn't use it during the, during the rain. That was odd. So we moved from the BAMRI, Washington, we went over to the San Miguel Gate, where you frequently will have, that's where the groups in the Tucson sector come, they come to the San Miguel Gate. And we were checking that out again, and then we're moving along the border road. And as we drove along the border road, I could see about 250 yards ahead of us, Three small children playing in the road. Now, mind you, we're on the reservation, so I thought maybe these are reservation children, although we were in the middle of nowhere, really, in the middle of nowhere. And as we got closer, we saw all of these people begin to emerge from the high desert shrubs and scrub that were there. And we stopped and talked to them because we had to wait for the Border Patrol now to come. We had to alert them. There's no signal. We had to stand on the cars to get signals so they'd call. And what we found is there were 21 individuals there. There was a family from Chiapas. Where are you going? He says, I'm heading to the Carolinas. I'm gonna be a roofer. He and his wife and their five month old baby. An individual lady, two single adult women, traveling on their own, two other single adult women with children, and then one other putative family unit which raised suspicions not just with me, but also with the Border Patrol agent who was there. Why were they coming? Because they knew they were going to be released into the United States. In fact, when I asked the Border Patrol agent, by the way, we reasoned we got so many agents there because they're stretched thin on this rather remote section They finally got there, but we said, how long before these individuals are gonna be released into America and go to the interior where they wanna go with Washington State, Austin, Texas? Why in the world did you come to the Tucson sector instead of El Paso sector? Because the cartels brought us here. We went to Caborka, a Sonoran town of about 60,000 people whose most famous resident is Miguel Quintaro, a famous drug lord allied with the Sinaloa cartel. How much did you pay? 75,000 pesos a person on average. They were brought to that location. They were, they were told, they were dropped off south of the border, a two hour walk in remote desert circumstances in 95 degree plus weather. 10 year old boy wearing Harachi sandals. The coyotes brought him there. They walked for two hours, and then they waited for two hours until we happened to come along. That's what the Biden policies have brought. And you talk to them, and they're here because of the Biden policies. Chiapas, Zapotech, Merida, Those are the states they came from. This bill goes a long way to restoring humanity. Cruel and heartbreaking this bill, Mr. Ranking Member. You should have been there. This bill must pass a yield.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Who seeks recognition?
speaker_8: I do.
speaker_21: The gentleman of California is recognized for five minutes.
speaker_4: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm an American, the proud grandson and great-grandson of immigrants, a proud descendant of people fleeing poverty and violence. My family immigrated to America from Britain in the early 1900s. They came originally from Eastern Europe, where if they had remained, they would have been slaughtered about 30 years later. Some of our family who didn't leave the soon to be killing fields of Lithuania and Poland, no doubt, met that terrible fate. My great-grandfather was very proud of his British passport, the country that gave him refuge prior to coming to America. But when the British sold out the checks to Hitler in an active appeasement called peace in our time, he took his British passport into the backyard of his Boston home and burned it in a coffee can. His family would forever be proud Americans. Our story is not unique. Millions of people have come to America to flee violence and in search of a better life. Their stories are a big part of America's story and the beautiful fabric of this country. We can no more separate ourselves from our history as immigrants than we can separate ourselves from our history as explorers, as builders, as idealists, and as lovers of freedom. It is part of our very constitution. even as the rights we enjoy as new citizens spring from a very different and brilliant constitution. With such a beautiful legacy and one that has served us so well, one that has attracted so many of the best and brightest to come here, the most innovative and hardworking souls on earth, why would we forsake it now and turn away those lawfully seeking asylum in America? For the economy? No. Immigrants add immeasurably to our economic output. Without them, we have no food, no one to take care of us when a pandemic threatens our lives, no one to support our seniors on Social Security and in Medicare, no future growth, no future. For our security, no, immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than people born here. And asylum seekers are coming here in search of security. not to threaten it. For what then? For what would we turn away people fleeing violence so many of our ancestors, as so many of our ancestors fled the same? For what would we put children in cages, separate families or send back to the desperate conditions from which they came? For what would we depart from the values of our nation? For what? Fear? Would we really do all this because we are afraid of those seeking asylum? Afraid of farmers and of shopkeepers, of tailors and of laborers, of fathers and mothers, of grandparents and their grandchildren? I do support a comprehensive solution to our immigration problems and one which includes more border security. I am aghast at the fentanyl problem in our country and want to do so much more to improve security and interdiction of this vile drug. at our ports of entry. And if the majority was sincere and interested in solving this problem, they would work with us instead of taking up a bill which, if it can even muster the support of their own party to pass the House, will surely go no farther than that. But I will not support this bill. It will hurt farmers by depriving them of the labor they need. It will hurt consumers who depend on their food. It will hurt our economy by telling the rest of the world that America wishes to wall itself off from the rest of the world. It is harsh. It is cruel. It will subject countless thousands to violence and misery dashing their hopes for a better life. I will not pry children from their parents or send families back into danger, ignore people fleeing repressive regimes any more than I could forget my own family's history as immigrants. I am not afraid of those seeking asylum and a better life. I'm an American. We welcome people seeking freedom, just as our parents did and theirs, and just as our founders did. We are a nation of immigrants, of huddled masses, yearning to be free. It is who we are. We are Americans. It is who we are. I yield back.
speaker_16: Gentleman yields back, I recognize the gentleman from Louisiana, Mr. Johnson.
speaker_8: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm moved to strike the last word. You know, we're addressing what is probably the greatest humanitarian national security and economic catastrophe of our lifetime. And I just want to note for the record that we have four, oh, I'm sorry, five of the 19 Democrats who serve on this committee. They're not here today. I guess they had better things to do. Or maybe it's that they realize that this Democrat administration's policies on the border are so utterly indefensible that they don't want to be here to have to answer for it. But we are marking up a very, very important bill that the American people demand and deserve. And let me just address one of the big components here that has been brought up this morning, because part of this is my legislation. Providing refuge for individuals fleeing persecution has been a central tenet of U.S. immigration law for decades. The asylum process itself is a testament to America's history, as a beacon of hope, freedom, and opportunity for millions around the world. We know that. Unfortunately though, here's the facts. Drug cartels, activist judges, human smuggling operations, the open borders lobby, and radical liberal administrations have worked in tandem to undermine the integrity of our immigration system. In the process, they have weakened protections for those who truly are seeking a safe haven from persecution by forcing them into a year's long line in immigration court. We all agree that the current system, the asylum system is in desperate need of repair, and HR 2640 provides the necessary tools to fix it. Today, we expect to hear lots of fear mongering from the other side. We've already heard hand-ringing and name calling and accusations that Republicans are anti-immigrant and inhumane and all the rest. We'll hear grandiose pronouncements that Democrats are pro-immigrant and pro-humanitarian values. And all this will be to distract the American people from the reality. The reality of the Biden administration's border crisis with everybody in the world can plainly see with their own eyes. To my colleagues on the other side of the day, as I ask you, what is humane about a human smuggler abandoning a one-year-old child in a diaper at the US-Mexico border? What is pro-immigrant about aliens suffocating to death and tractor trailers and freight charred car trains? What are the humanitarian principles behind policies that encourage child trafficking, sexual exploitation, and violence directed towards some of society's most vulnerable people? Being pro-immigrant and supporting humanitarian values means fixing the problems that create these crises and reducing the perverse incentives perpetuated by our flawed asylum system. Being pro-immigrant and supporting humanitarian values does not mean maintaining the catastrophic status quo as Democrats would have us do. It means more of the same, more deaths, more exploitation, and more real tangible harm to aliens and citizens alike. We live in the greatest nation in the history of the world, it's not even close. And we are also the most benevolent and the most generous people in the world. We have a rich history of granted asylum to those fleeing or fearing persecution on account of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion, membership, in a particular social group. But for years now, aliens without valid asylum claims have gamed our asylum system and exploited our generosity for their own benefit. Fraud runs rampant. Frivolous asylum claims create backlogs in the courts and activist judges whittled away at the very basis of what it means to seek asylum. By including my bill, the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act, in this immigration package, we seek to return asylum to its historical roots and restore the integrity of the system. Currently, the immigration statute leaves key phrases undefined and hands over asylum law to be built on this patchwork of court decisions by lower court judges. But this bill will codify the relevant terms, the key terms that we need to be defined, and they will basically make uniform interpretation, regardless of geography. It will reserve asylum for those who are truly in need of it. It will get rid of a lot of these frivolous asylum applications that are running rampant and it will close loopholes. We will make sure that asylum claims are heard in a timely manner. And we'll make sure that employment, which is one of the biggest magnets for aliens illegally crossing the border and frivolously applying for asylum, that that issue is addressed as well. The American people are not going to wait any longer. We have to strengthen the asylum process. We have to push back against fraud. We have to ensure that asylum remains a viable, accessible pathway for those fleeing persecution. And this bill is going to build off those positive changes and other elements of today's immigration package and return America's asylum system to the true and invaluable purpose that it serves. With that, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and the nature of a substitute to the Border Security and Enforcement Act. And I yield back.
speaker_16: Gentleman yields back. Who seeks recognition?
speaker_15: I move to strike the last word.
speaker_16: The general ladies recognize Ms. Scanlan from Pennsylvania.
speaker_15: Thank you. I yield 30 seconds to Mr. Nadler.
speaker_20: Thank the gentlelady. Our members do care about this issue when they are working on these issues and committees all across the Capitol. Several members are at hearings on the border with Mr. Secretary Mayorkas in the Homeland Security Committee about immigration right now. Others are at Foreign Affairs Committee and the Annual Services Committee. We do care about this issue, and we look forward to discussing this issue in depth with you today, although we do not have too much hope that you will discuss it seriously. I yield back.
speaker_15: Thank you. Look, I just want to be clear that we've been called into this committee hearing today to push through an extremist and cruel immigration bill that would, among other things, upend our asylum system, send unaccompanied children back to dangerous situations and jail some children indefinitely. We saw that the failed and inhumane immigration policies of the previous administration weakened our economy, undermined our moral standing in the world, and did not make us any safer. However, extremist Republicans want to take us back there again. The truth is the bill before us is not a workable plan to fix our immigration system. And without any serious proposal, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have resorted to lies, conspiracy theories, and political theater. designed to stoke fear and chaos and distract from the lack of viable solutions. In fact, the policies in this bill are so extreme that members of their own party have called them ineffective, inhumane, un-American, and un-Christian. And I agree. I particularly want to call attention to how this legislation would endanger vulnerable children. Title III guts the protections of the Flores Settlement Agreement, which has helped govern the conditions of children in government custody for 26 years. In doing so, this bill upends a carefully crafted system to minimize the detention of children due to the grave, harmful impact that detention has on kids. The evidence on this is clear. No amount of detention is safe for children, and even a short period can wreck long-term harms like psychological trauma and mental health risks. In spite of all of that, this bill would mandate that asylum-seeking families, including children, be detained indefinitely. This would apply retroactively to families currently living and working in the US while awaiting their asylum hearing, and it would jail kids for what could be years if their parent is prosecuted for the misdemeanor crime of unlawful entry. I want to describe for a moment what that would look like. A mother and her child fleeing violence or starvation at home come to America seeking asylum. But if they find the port of entry closed and the mother takes her child and crosses between ports, she can be charged with a misdemeanor. But if she follows the rules and applies for asylum and she's at no risk for flight or violence, this bill would require that she and that young child be placed in detention, a result that despite the language of this bill, clearly is prohibited by the Flores litigation. This legislation claims to uphold Flores, but it's clear these provisions mandating family detention directly contravene it, something the courts have already ruled upon. If we're going to meaningfully work, on immigration reform. We can't start from a place of cruelty against the most vulnerable. We need to recognize both the horrific conditions that cause immigrants to flee and the meaningful contributions that they make to our country. And critically, we must provide functioning pathways for people to enter the U.S. lawfully rather than some kind of bait and switch. We enshrined the right to seek asylum into international law during the aftermath of World War II and must uphold this tradition of providing those fleeing persecution with safer, better lives here in America. And we can't repeat past mistakes by turning away vulnerable migrants, like the Jewish refugees on board the SS St. Louis, sent back to danger and for far too many to death in Europe 84 years ago. Immigration reform is a complex problem that requires thoughtful and comprehensive solutions. And the bill put forward today is neither. I oppose this bill. I encourage my Republican colleagues to go back to the drawing table with us to work on meaningful reforms. And I yield back.
speaker_16: General lady yields back. Who seeks recognition? Gentleman from California. Mr. ICE is recognized.
speaker_19: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask unanimous consent to have the following articles placed in the record. One is entitled CBP, 21.1 million worth of fentanyl stashed in green beans at Otai Mesa. The second one is in March Madness at the San Diego field office, the Elite 8 seized $1.6 million worth of a total of 5,000 pounds of at them. Without objection. Yeah, anyhow, fentanyl. And the last one is fentanyl seizures, the border continue to spike.
speaker_16: Without objection.
speaker_19: Mr. Chairman. Today, we are going to consider legislation that is a total of seven individual bills combined into one. Our colleagues on the other side have already made it clear that they have no intention on supporting any aspect of it, and I expect to have a massive amount of fairly dilatory amendments offered. But I would ask all of us here today if our solution, or solutions, all seven of them, are in fact not the answer. And if you have a solution, would you please bring sensible solutions forward? Under the last administration, there would have been more than one million less people entering the country to backlog parole. Under the last administration, we authorized and more judges were appointed. Under this administration, systematically, Article I judges who In fact, make those decisions are being dismissed simply because they were appointed by the previous administration. In fact, we have less judges today than we had a year ago for a reason. This administration does not want to adjudicate those claims. They are allowing the backlog to build so that those people on parole will never have a hearing. Those people on parole will never come to the front of the list. Those people on parole will permanently be here without a real legitimate reason to be here in almost 95% of the cases. I would say today the tragedy is for the 5%. mixed in with 140 plus countries, not the triangle as the vice president would have you believe in some of the others, but in fact, over 140 different nations, people are coming here, most of them with only one legitimate reason to be here. They seek a better life, no question at all. But they seek a better life by getting ahead of so many who have in fact done the right thing, waited in line, and continue to wait in line. My grandfather came to this country using a trick. He went to Brazil for four years so he could get on a list from Brazil rather than from Lebanon at a time in which the Asian Exclusion Act prevented him from coming directly here. We understand that all of us have history, almost all of us have history of immigration. And there's a lot of ways you come, but there were rules and people found a way to work with the rules. Today the rule is show up either at the border or between the border and you'll get in. Make a false claim, you'll not only get in, but you'll be treated better than those people waiting in line. Three years ago, I introduced with Congresswoman Lofgren a bipartisan bill to try to increase the quality of high-tech workers coming to this country, something that's limited to just 65,000. The Congresswoman and I worked together on trying to improve the merit and the quality of those individuals. We passed it unanimously through this committee. I would challenge all of us if we're going to have the kind of markup today that I suspect we're going to have. Let us at least meet afterwards and have the discussion about the fact that America does want and need to be welcoming, and particularly we would like to offer opportunities to those who wait at the door patiently and make proper application. So although I do not have high expectations for today, and we will do what we will do, I want to hold out my hand to my friend on the other side of the aisle and all my friends. We need to deal with some of the real problems. And one of them is that people waiting in line properly can't get in. They can't even get the opportunity to get in because we're so clogged with a system that has, in my opinion, been deliberately broken. And with that, I yield back.
speaker_16: The gentleman yields. I recognize, who seeks recognition? The gentlelady from Washington, Ms. Jayapal.
speaker_7: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I move to strike last word. I rise in strong opposition to HR 2640. Today, after nearly four months of inaction, our Republican colleagues are taking up a giant immigration bill that can only be described with three words, cruel, extreme, and unworkable. And in the words of a Republican member of Congress, it's not ready for prime time. This bill is a patchwork of overlapping and contradictory bills that are all about a failed enforcement only immoral approach. It's a clear demonstration that Republicans have no real solutions to the complex issue of immigration. We've already seen that Trump's radical, inhumane, and racist immigration actions weaken the US economy, undermined our moral standing in the world, led to increased numbers of migrants at the southern border, and did not make us safer. Democrats understand that the best way to address concerns about the border and this complex humanitarian crisis is to actually fix the broken immigration system so that we provide clear legal pathways to people. That's why Democrats have put forward and we have passed in a bipartisan way real solutions for humanely reforming our immigration system. We remain ready to work with serious Republicans to pass meaningful solutions. Our proposals address the root causes of migration. They improve border security, and they create additional legal pathways for people to enter the United States lawfully. By creating a more humane immigration system that recognizes the horrific conditions that force migrants to flee, as well as the contributions of immigrants to America, we can decrease unauthorized crossings, we can strengthen our economy, we can protect migrants and citizens from harm, while all at the same time, again, recognizing the tremendous contributions that immigrants make to our country every day. Don't just take my word for it. Take a look at the numbers and see how the creation of legal pathways can work. When the Biden administration created new legal pathways for nationals of Haiti, Venezuela, Cuba, and Nicaragua, crossings between ports of entry for nationals of those countries fell 72% in the first three months. On the opposite side, let's look at what happened when a president tries to shut down legal immigration. Donald Trump's attempts to cut legal immigration in half resulted in higher denial rates for student and high-skilled visa holders. His most cruel policies separating children from their parents also violated our most basic American values while scarring thousands of children forever. Trump's policies combined his anti-immigrant rhetoric, combined with his anti-immigrant rhetoric, made us less safe, less competitive in attracting the best and the brightest, and undermined our most basic human values of compassion and kindness. So let's all just take a minute to recognize the hypocrisy of every anti-immigrant debate. This country needs immigrants to survive. Immigrants pick the food we eat, rebuild our communities after climate disasters, help construct our infrastructure, power our small business economy, clean our homes, and look after the most precious in our families, our children and our elders. They strengthen our economy, food supply chain, and our ability to compete. Today, America is facing serious labor shortages in many industries, from caregiving to nursing, to agriculture. Take the agriculture industry where immigrant workers make up about 73% of ag workers who are critical to putting food on the table. According to the American Farm Bureau Federation, U.S. agriculture needs 1.5 to 2 million workers annually. But farmers are struggling to find workers. In California alone, 56% of farmers report not being able to find enough workers over the last five years. And yet today, the majority's bill attempts to impose mandatory nationwide E-Verify, which would further decimate our agricultural industry. Last year, over 40% of Fortune 500 companies were founded by immigrants or their children. These immigrant-founded companies generated over $7 trillion in revenue in 2022 and they drive 68 industry sectors nationwide. So if we want to keep this up, if we want to remain an innovation powerhouse, we can't shut off immigration and we need to get serious about humane immigration reform legislation. The bill before us today is not a serious proposal. The reason it's taken so long to even get to this point of a markup is that it's opposed by members of the Republican Party who have said that these proposals are anti-Christian, anti-American, and again, not ready for prime time. They are cruel, extreme, unworkable. It's unclear if they can even pass on the House floor, let alone the United States Senate, but that seems to be exactly the point, to divide the country, to use immigrants as a political football with no real solutions that help our country. So we are ready to work with our Republican colleagues and we look forward to doing that. I yield back.
speaker_16: The lady's time has expired. She yields back. Who seeks recognition?
speaker_19: Mr. Chairman, I do.
speaker_16: Mr. Moran from Texas, you are recognized.
speaker_19: Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.
speaker_16: Gentlemen, is recognized.
speaker_19: Mr. Chairman, there is a crisis on our southern border. Millions of illegal aliens have taken advantage of our broken system knowing that if they get to the border, the Biden administration will not enforce our immigration laws. But the Southwest border is not the only area in U.S. immigration law neglected by the Biden administration who has repeatedly refused to remove illegal aliens who have overstayed their visas. Until the Biden administration open up our border completely, there were roughly as many illegal aliens who came here legally, but overstayed their visas as those who illegally crossed the southwestern border into our nation. According to the Department of Homeland Security, over 500,000 foreign visitors to the United States overstayed their visas in 2020. Unfortunately, that is the last year we have data due to the Biden administration's refusal to release the information for the time period since. In September 2021, Secretary Mayorkas issued a memorandum outlining his quote priorities for immigration enforcement. Unfortunately, these priorities did not include illegal immigrants who have overstayed their visas. So in my mind, there's little doubt that the number of visa overstays has increased during 2021 and 2022. Oversaying a visa is a civil immigration infraction, but entering the United States illegally is a criminal offense. Lacks enforcement. coupled with no real consequences, makes overstaying a visa an attractive option for aliens who agree to come here temporarily with the intentions to remain permanently in the United States. My bill originally HR 2436 entitled to Stop Visa Oversays Act, which is now incorporated as Title V in this Border Security and Enforcement Act of 2003, puts visa overstay on par with illegal entry as a misdemeanor criminal offense, punishable by up to six months imprisonment for the first offense, and a criminal fine. The bill is necessary to act as a deterrent for those considering entering legally and overstaying their visas. Then presidential candidate Joe Biden in the past noted that, quote, nearly half of the undocumented people living in the U.S. today have overstayed a visa, not crossed a border illegally, end quote. Congressional Democrats have gone even further with Representative Benny Thompson in 2017 expressing his concern that the Trump administration was not focusing on visa overstates enough. In 2013, one of our Democratic Judiciary colleagues stated, quote, America's borders will only be secure when we address not only those who walk through the desert to come here, but also those who arrived in this country through our front door. One of the most infamous examples of individuals who overstayed their visa would be none other than the 9-11 hijackers. Another example is David DePape, the man who attacked then Speaker Pelosi's husband in the comfort of his own home. With this administration's lackluster enforcement record, It is up to Congress to step up and do something about illegal immigration, both on our border and within the interior. Today we have a chance to do something to deter visa overstays. In addition to making overstaying a visa a misdemeanor, the bill also increases the civil penalties for overstaying their visas, from between $50 to $250 to now $500 to $1,000. Subsequent offenses under my bill will result in these fines being doubles. Republicans in Congress have been introducing legislation to make visa overstays a crime for over a decade. This change is overdue, as is this bill at large, and we can make it happen today. I urge my colleagues to support the entirety of the bill that's been proposed today, including Title V of this Border Security and Enforcement Act of 2003, and I yield back the balance of my time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back. Who seeks recognition?
speaker_7: Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: Ms. Jaipaw?
speaker_7: I ask unanimous consent to enter the following statements into the record. These are statements of opposition from the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, the AFL-CIO, Amnesty International, Kerasen, Church World Services, Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of California, Community Change Action Action, First Focus Campaign for Children, Franciscan Action Network, Francis Action Network for Migrants, USA, Hope Border Institute, Immigration Hub, Jesuit Refugee Service USA, Keno Border Institute, Mary Knowle Office for Global Concerns, Network Lobby for Catholic Social Justice, National Immigrant Justice Center, Pax Christi, USA, Kejote Center, Service Employees International Union, SEIU, Sisters of Mercy of the America's Justice Team, Southern Border Communities Coalition, St. Columban Mission for Justice, Peace, and Ecology, the United Methodist Church, and a statement from 106 state, local, and national immigration, civil rights, public health, religious labor, and other organizations.
speaker_8: Without objection.
speaker_7: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: Mr. Van Jues. Do you seek recognition?
speaker_18: I do.
speaker_8: Strike the last word?
speaker_18: Strike the last word.
speaker_8: The gentleman's recognized.
speaker_18: You know, I actually wasn't going to say anything in the beginning here, but it just struck me so much that we're kind of on the other side, rewriting history. First of all, they will mention that it took this long to come up with a piece of legislation. This is complex legislation. During the time they have the majority in the House, in the Senate, and the presidency, we didn't see anything really substantive done to stop the fentanyl flow. It increased. We didn't see anything really substantively done to have borders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's tell the truth. No nation of any strength, no nation of any worth would go without having borders. You must have functional borders to have a functional nation. And we want to talk about cruelty, like literally the Republican members here want to be cruel. Nobody's attempting to be cruel. It's cruel what we're doing. It's cruel that babies are thrown over the border, hoping that something will be done with them and they can just get them across so the cartel can make money from the people who have that done. It's cruel what we're doing to Americans because we're introducing the cartel into our way of life. You've heard many individuals now comment that one, our next war as it was, is gonna be with the cartels. They shouldn't be in America. When I was in Yuma, I visited, you know, many different areas at the border, but when I was in Yuma, the cartels had so little respect for the inspection that was going on that we were part of that they were doing wheelies and circles around us. They don't respect the United States, They're creating a huge, not, it is a huge, not creating, it is a huge fentanyl problem. These children, you want to talk about cruelty. When these children get over here, they are almost in bondage. They're working at ages. They should never be working at jobs. They should never be doing many of them. Many of them are raped in the process. And we're calling this a humane process that exists now. These are little kids. And we're letting that happen. They're used for child labor, sex slavery. And then there's a terror watch list. We do have people that get through that are on the terror watch list that we don't catch. Nobody wants to say that. They're doing the best job they can at the border, but we don't have enough people. It's called the rule of law. What is being done that's so deceptive is saying that you don't like immigration and you don't want immigration. That is not the case. We want legal immigration. We want safe immigration. We want children that aren't going to be used as sexual slaves. We don't want amnesty misused for something that it wasn't meant for. There's a specific purpose for amnesty, and we've gone way beyond that. Crime, cruelty, sexual slavery, the huge cost to America, the dangers that exist, the cartel mocking us, may work as who doesn't, looks like he's dazed, I'm sorry, but this is a man who should resign or should be impeached. He's doing a terrible job. And he doesn't even admit the obvious. It's so obvious what's happening at our border. It's so terrible what's happening at our border. It's so hurtful to Americans and to the people that are crossing and most of all to the children. And Mayorka says everything is fine. You show him a picture. You show him a vision of what's going on. You show him on television or on a video. And he says everything's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not okay. That's why we're here today. And it is a difficult issue, and there aren't easy answers. But I think you find the answers with the rule of law. I find you have the answers when you seek compassion for children. and young people that are being abused, and for adults, by the way, that are being abused. And I think you find the answer when you have an organized system in which you redo legal, that's the word, legal immigration. Don't let them confuse it, confuse you. There's legal and there's illegal. We shouldn't have and we shouldn't want illegal immigration because it's causing all these problems. Legal immigration is a wonderful thing. We've all gone through that process together. So let's tell the truth. Let's get down to the nitty gritty. Let's really try to fix the thing and not just try to throw out these, you know, words that really don't mean anything to anybody because they're not honest and they're not full of integrity in what they say. Nobody here wants to hurt anybody, but we do want a strong America and a strong border. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: The gentleman's time has expired. Who's six recognition? Mr. Roy? Recognize for five minutes.
speaker_5: Strike the last word.
speaker_8: You recognize. The gentleman's recognized.
speaker_5: Thank the chairman. I would note that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have their talking points in order because that's that's how this works. Cruel, extreme, unworkable, immoral, make for nice splashy sound bites and Twitter for show for the television to get out and send out its clips. Mr. Chairman, I would ask to insert into the record two New York Times articles, one titled as migrant children were put to work, United States ignored warnings. The second alone and exploited migrant children work brutal jobs across the United States.
speaker_8: Without objection.
speaker_5: I would note that one of the quotes in one of these articles, both in the New York Times, both published in the last few months, Quote, while HHS checks on all minors by calling them a month after they begin living with their sponsors, data obtained by the time showed that over the last two years, the agency could not reach more than 85,000 children. Overall, the agency lost immediate contact with a third of migrant children. It's not as cute as kids in cages, is it? The supposed cages that were put in place by Barack Obama. that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle like to try to exploit to be those who are the truly compassionate ones, you see. Those who will look out and preach that they are the ones who care for brown people. They are the ones who care for people who are migrants. I assume that they don't believe that it was cruel when ranchers in South Texas Arizona run across the dead bodies of children and migrants exploited by the coyotes, the 856 migrants that died attempting to cross the southwest border last fiscal year alone. 856 dead bodies floating in the Rio Grande found on ranches exploited by cartels. I suppose it's just perfectly fine that cartels are operating with impunity. along the Texas border, slitting the throats of people who are dare to oppose them, threatening people, burning people alive, locking them into bars and buildings and burning them alive. I suppose the 53 migrants that cooked in the Texas heat in a tractor trailer in San Antonio last August, that's not cruel. That's not immoral. That's not extreme. But yet that's the truth. That's the truth of the current system perpetuated by Democrats in the false name of compassion, looking out to be able to say that they are the ones that can speak for the huddled masses, that they alone are the ones that can do that, that somehow those who seek to come to the United States seeking a better way of life because the rule of law matters. that we then thwart and undermine the rule of law, allowing children, women, and people seeking a better way of life to die because we in fact refuse to enforce the rule of law. Yes, we are putting forward measures today to ensure that our system works because a system that works begins and ends with the rule of law and ensuring that people are protected what we are putting forward today, including provisions from HR 29, but not all the provisions, because the legislative process works. We're having conversations and we have a package today that accomplishes the objective set forth in HR 29 and the numerous other proposals we have put forward over the years to ensure that people who come to the United States seeking asylum will have their case heard, but likewise ensure that the administration can no longer flout the rule of law using asylum and parole to and run the rule of law to release people into the United States in ways that causes 85,000 children to get lost. Children in these articles getting sold into the human trafficking business, the sex trafficking business. All while my colleagues on their side of the aisle like to tout how compassionate they are. Well, go campaign on that. We will campaign on standing up for the children, the families, the migrants who seek to come here and do it the right way. To do it following the rule of law so this country can continue to stand as a beacon of hope for the world rather than the lawless morass that this administration has put forward, importing lawlessness, importing fentanyl instead of exporting the rule of law and hope around the world. That's what this bill will stand up to reinstate. I yield back.
speaker_8: Thank you, gentlemen, times expired. Who seeks recognition? Mr. Fitzgerald. Gentlemen, gentlemen, recognize.
speaker_9: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a big day today in the Judiciary Committee. For four years, Republicans have said, then when we are in charge, our top priority will be to pass much needed border security legislation. I'm proud that the Judiciary Committee is taking the first step to deliver on that promise today. In keeping with our commitment to America, I'm proud to support HR 2640, the Border Security Enforcement Act, which will end catch and release loopholes that have allowed illegal aliens to stay in the U.S. indefinitely, curb the surge of migrants at the southern border, and require proof of legal status to get a job. More importantly, This bill will restore the immigration and border security measures that were erased during President Biden's first two years in office. During fiscal year 2022, the Border Patrol encountered more than 2.3 million illegal aliens, the most ever in a single year. Of those, Border Patrol encountered a record high 98 aliens in the terrorist screening data set crossing the southwest border. That's an increase of 276% compared to the total number of such aliens encountered during the previous five fiscal years combined. These record numbers are not uncommon during the Biden administration as president and secretary, myorkas have traded border security and lawful immigration for a free for all immigration process that rewards rather than punishes illegal border crossings. The Border Security Enforcement Act will rightly restore the strong border security policies implemented during the Trump administration. It will end catch and release loopholes, stop visa overstays, restore the remain in Mexico policy, and reform immigration and asylum parole programs. These common sense fixes will significantly reduce the number of illegal border crossings and ease the burden on an already overworked U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. It's imperative that Congress come together on this bill to deliver on our promise to the American people. Failure to act will not only open the floodgates to migrant crossings at the conclusion of Title 42, but will also allow dangerous drugs like fentanyl, which we've talked of ad nauseum in this committee. It will allow them to continue to flow across our border, destroying the lives of children and families. Let's save Americans that heartbreak by passing HR 2640. I urge all my colleagues to support the bill, and I yield back.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back, who seeks recognition?
speaker_20: Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, go ahead.
speaker_8: Ms. Hingman?
speaker_11: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm moved to, I strongly support the Border Security and Enforcement Act. Since Joe Biden took office, our southern border has been in a state of chaos with little to know operational control. This is not because of the hardworking men and women of our law enforcement, border security, and immigration enforcement, but because of deliberate actions or lack of action from President Biden and Secretary of Mayorkas. Since President Biden took office, CBP officials have encountered over 4.8 million illegal aliens along the southwest border, and another 1.5 million known illegal alien gotaways have successfully avoided detection in entering the country. My state has 560,000 people. Since Biden took office, over 10 times the population of the state of Wyoming have illegally crossed the southern border. Last fiscal year, CBP encountered a record 98 aliens on the terrorist screening data set, and 856 aliens died attempting to cross the border, and those are just the ones that we know about. Women and children are being trafficked into the U.S. under inhumane and cruel conditions, and narcotics like fentanyl are depriving countless Americans of their loved ones. This is a national security crisis. This is a humanitarian crisis. And this was all avoidable. The Biden administration's dereliction of duty in enforcing our nation's immigration laws have created this crisis. The fact is that Joe Biden is the largest human trafficker in US history. I am proud to represent the great state of Wyoming. We are not a southern border state yet. Yet the escalation at the escalating crisis at the border has created issues for our state as well. Statistics from the Wyoming Department of Criminal Investigations show a significant increase in fentanyl seizures within the state. In 2022, the Wyoming Department of Health put out a notice titled Fentanyl burden growing in Wyoming as the number of synthetic opioid involved overdoses deaths more than quadrupled between 2018 and 2021. Further, the DEA Rocky Mountain Division, which covers Colorado, Montana, Utah, and Wyoming has seized over 5.8 million potentially deadly doses of fentanyl just in 2022. I promised my constituents a top priority as their representative would be to conduct oversight into and find solutions to this growing problem. In the course of this oversight, our committee has heard from the brave law enforcement officers on the front lines of this crisis. We have heard from border communities like Yuma, Arizona, who feel neglected and forgotten by this administration. In the field, I promise the people of Yuma and all of the other border communities that their experience represents that we have heard them and that they are not forgotten as this administration wages war on their communities. We heard about the almost $30 million in uncompensated health care for illegal immigrants. The border community serving as a processing center for asylum claims to be sent deeper into the country, cartel control of the border, as Mayorkas and Biden have lost operational control. and the threat to our food supply and security. Notably, this legislation would keep in place the right to apply for asylum while overturning the incentives the Biden administration has unlawfully put in place, which draw people to our border. It will increase penalties for knowingly violating our laws and visa requirements. It would end Biden policies leaving unaccompanied minors, as the New York Times described, as a loan and exploited, working brutal jobs across the country. This will restore operational control of the border in a matter which removes the U.S. government from the business of human and drug trafficking and which reinforces the rule of law and protects children and families. These policies will be attacked by the Democrats, those on the other side, they already have. But that is simply because those who have promoted these policies or provided political cover for them have no serious response to the crisis that they have created. so they resort to political buzzwords and deflection. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill. It is what we need in this country at this time. I would also request unanimous consent to submit into the record an article entitled, Majorca smuggled 100,000 migrants into the US through a hidden parole pathway. And with that, I yield back.
speaker_8: Without objection, gentlelady yields back. Who six recognition?
speaker_20: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment to the desk.
speaker_9: I reserve a point of order.
speaker_8: The gentleman reserves a point of order and the clerk will report the amendment.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock of California offered by Mr. Nadler.
speaker_8: Without objection, the amendment will be considered as read. The gentleman is recognized to explain his amendment.
speaker_20: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would strike Title VII of the bill, which requires all employers to use e-verify. I'd like to note at the outset that we have had no hearings on E-Verify or other interior enforcement issues. And if the majority were following regular order, we would not be including this title in the bill. But setting aside these procedural flaws, this title is also dangerously flawed on the substance. We all know that a nation's immigration system is in desperate need of reform. It does not work for American families, businesses, or the economy. These problems require real legislative solutions. But the approach the committee is taking today falls far far short of what we need. Title VII of this legislation would make E-Verify an existing electronic system for voluntarily verifying employment eligibility mandatory for all employers. We have considered this provision as a separate bill four times since 2010, and it has never been able to pass on the House floor. There is no reason to believe that the fifth time would be the charm. The problem has always been that we cannot require all employers to use E-Verify if we do not also adopt comprehensive reforms to our nation's immigration system and reform E-Verify itself. We are very likely to hear today that E-Verify will help American workers because every time an undocumented immigrant is denied a job, an unemployment American, an unemployed American can get hired. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. Immigrants fill major gaps in our workforce. This is particularly evident in agriculture. where 50% of more of on the field farm workers lack immigration status. If we mandated the use of E-Verify without also providing a fair and meaningful opportunity for those experienced undocumented farm workers to obtain legal status, here is what we would see. Farms across the nation would be forced out of business. Americans would be forced to rely on foreign markets to import our fruits and vegetables. And millions of upstream and downstream American jobs supported by agriculture would be lost. In recognition of this problem, the majority is attempted to delay the implementation of the E-FARIFI for the agriculture sector. But this is not a sufficient or workable solution to our agricultural labor needs. In addition, we must also ensure that any E-Verify legislation sufficiently protects American citizens and other authorized workers so that they are not inappropriately prohibited from working. It is true that this bill contains several requirements intended to protect such workers. For example, employers must inform workers when the system issues a tentative non-confirmation of eligibility. Also, employers cannot rescind job offers or fire workers until they get a chance to fix any errors. However, the bill lacks any penalties for failing to follow these guidelines, and we know that many employers who currently use the system do not comply with current requirements. Why would this be any different if the verifies made mandatory? Finally, the bill offers no real protections for U.S. citizens and other work authorized persons or incorrectly identified as unauthorized to work. Under this provision, such workers would be fired, and the only remedy would be through the Federal Toward Claims Act. Yet there are sufficient procedural hurdles involved in pursuing a claim under the Tort Claims Act, leading to considerable delays and expense. How many of us can afford to be out of work for six months while waiting for a decision on their administrative claim? How many will bring a lawsuit after that administrative claim goes unanswered for six months? And how many will actually be compensated for lost wages by proving that the erroneous non-confirmation resulted from, quote, a negligent or wrongful act or omission by any employee of the government, unquote. I don't think any of us want to barring American citizens from working because Congress failed to provide due process when mandating the use of e-verified by all employers. Unfortunately, today's markups is only to highlight and Republicans do not have real solutions to the serious problems that Americans care about. Legislation that focuses on enforcement without adequately reforming the current system is an unstarter. I urge all members to support my amendment. I yield back the balance of my time.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: The gentleman yields back. Mr. McClintock.
speaker_9: I withdraw the point of order and I would like to speak in opposition to the bill.
speaker_8: The gentleman's point of order is withdrawn. It's recognized for five minutes.
speaker_9: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, let me begin by pointing out to the gentleman that it's already illegal to hire illegal aliens. The problem is that that's easy to circumvent with fraudulent documents. E-Verify doesn't make it illegal to hire illegal aliens. That's already law. All that E-Verify does is to make it much harder to cheat to violate that law. The fact is the Democrats' open border policies made a shambles of our borders, a mockery of the rule of law, and a crisis for working Americans. While working Americans are expected to pay the enormous costs of this illegal mass migration, estimated over $150 billion a year, The wages of the families that are struggling to make ends meet are being held down by a flood of cheap illegal labor into the labor market and then are being required to pay taxes to support this illegal population. It's no coincidence that when President Trump actually secured our border, working class wages shot up the fastest we've seen in 40 years. The Democrats have completely and catastrophically reversed this progress. Uh, you know, belying the artificially low unemployment rate reported by the administration is the fact that in addition to the 5.9 million Americans looking for work, an additional 5.1 million more were not in the labor force, want a job, but they can't, they've, they've dropped out because they're discouraged workers. They believe that no jobs are available to them. Meanwhile, millions of illegal aliens are being illegally employed in the US. The vast majority of illegal aliens coming to the United States are economic migrants. At the border, I've asked them why they come, and every single one of them replied, well, for a better life or to find work. Well, that is not the purpose of asylum. To protect American jobs in 1986, we made it a federal crime to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant. We required employers to check the employment eligibility and identify the documents of all new hires. But as I said, that law became a joke because of the explosion of easily obtained fraudulent documents that make it all but impossible for employers to reliably determine employment eligibility. So in response, Congress established E-Verify, which is an easy to use electronic verification system where employers can immediately check the employment eligibility of an employee. Nearly 1.1 million employers representing over 3.1 million work sites are currently enrolled in a verify. It's easy for employers to use, and it's effective. In fact, 99.7% of work eligible individuals receive an immediate confirmation. Let me repeat that. 99.7% receive immediate confirmation. But since it's only voluntary for most employers, Many simply continue to hire illegals at the expense of American workers by ignoring E-Verify and accepting fraudulent documents. This measure, which incorporates Mr. Calvert's bill, makes E-Verify permanent and mandatory for all U.S. employers, which finally makes the 1986 requirement to protect American workers, actually enforceable. I will admit that the system is still vulnerable to identity theft. If an illegal alien uses the name, date of birth, and social security number of a legal resident, he verify can sometimes return to work confirmation. This bill corrects that problem. When the social security number is used an unusual pattern of multiple attempts, the rightful owner will be notified under this bill if that person's been defrauded. The administration has to lock the Social Security number so that no one else can use it for employment eligibility purposes. This bill phases in E-Verify in six-month increments, beginning with the largest U.S. employers. It raises penalties for employers who do not use E-Verify according to the requirements. It allows employers to use E-Verify prior to the date they hire an employee, and it provides legal protection for employers who use the system in good faith. This measure balances the needs of the American people regarding immigration enforcement with the needs of the business community regarding a fair and workable electronic employment eligibility verification system. So I urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment and support this provision of the bill. I yield back to balance my time.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back who seeks recognition. Ms. Jaipal?
speaker_7: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm surprised that this bill is in here, frankly. We have considered this provision as a separate bill four times since 2010. It's never been able to pass on the House floor. And there's no reason to believe that the fifth time is going to be the charm. Look, I think that this is the hypocrisy of the immigration system that we have. We need these workers. We know that immigrants are filling major gaps in our workforce. We see it very clearly in the agricultural industry where 50% or more of the on the field farm workers lack immigration status. I have worked with the Farm Workers Bureau in my state. They have consistently opposed E-Verify because without significant immigration reform, what you're doing is saying that they wouldn't be able to hire these workers and they know they need these workers. So at one time, they even were with us and pushing for immigration reform. I think the bipartisan farm worker modernization act is one of the things that would help to ensure that we have the workers that we need and that they're able to get legal status. But the reality is that if we mandate the use of E-Verify without providing a fair and meaningful opportunity for those experienced and undocumented workers, particularly in agriculture and other industries to obtain legal status, then let's just think about what that means for you, the American people that are out there perhaps watching this. It means that your farms across the nation would be forced out of business. It means that Americans would be forced to rely on foreign markets to import our fruits and vegetables. It means that millions of upstream and downstream American jobs supported by agriculture would be lost. And so those are the kinds of things that we are talking about. I think we also have to think about the fact that E-Verify, while the error rate has come down, There was a very big error rate when it first came into being. That rate has come down, but it still does not offer right now in the bill any real protections for U.S. citizens and other work authorized people who are incorrectly identified as unauthorized to work. And the relatively small and percentage-wise error rate is actually a huge number of people. It's hundreds of thousands of workers. If you have a situation where there's an error under this provision, those workers would be fired and their only remedy would be through the federal tort claims act. But there are really significant procedural hurdles involved in pursuing a claim under that act and it would lead to considerable delays and expense. How many of these farm workers, how many of any of us, frankly, could afford to be out of work for six months while waiting for a decision on an administrative claim? How many will bring a lawsuit after that administrative claim goes unanswered for six months? And how many would actually be compensated for lost wages by proving that the erroneous non-confirmation resulted from a quote, negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the government? I don't think any of us want to bar an American citizen from working because Congress failed to provide due process when mandating the use of E-Verify by all employers. So again, this is, as I said, in the very beginning, it's extreme. It's cruel. And in this case, it's certainly unworkable, unworkable for our farms, our agriculture industry, and so many other industries that rely on immigrant workers. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
speaker_8: General Lady yields back, does anyone else seek recognition? Mr. Correa has recognized, five minutes.
speaker_13: Thank you, Senator. I just wanted to talk a little bit about my district, Orange County, California. Southern California still, believe it or not, probably the manufacturing hub of the United States. A lot of hardworking blue collar workers in my district. A lot of entrepreneurs, small businesses that hire 20, 30, people to do that manufacturing. And one of the stories I keep hearing over and over again is Lou, we need immigration reform. Every time we get audited, half of my workforce is out the door. And the story is they're trying to bring back manufacturing jobs from overseas, from China specifically. And we're hitting them right at the knees. What we need in this country is immigration reform. What we need is an opportunity for people that have been here 20, 30 years working honestly, paying taxes to have the ability to become green card holders, legal workers. I don't understand why we want to penalize small business owners. Small business owners are following the laws. They are also paying their taxes, complying with workforce, labor requirements, and you come in and you hit them right in the knees and say, fire half this workforce. E-verify, it's not the right time. Let's talk about immigration reform first. Then we can talk about the other issues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I yield.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back. Who else seeks recognition? If there are none, the question. Mr. Massey, recognized five minutes.
speaker_14: I agree with the gentleman's amendment. I don't think that e-verify should be part of this title. We've got federal databases. We've got, and I'm against them, in order to exercise your basic fundamental human rights. You shouldn't have to go through a NICS database to exercise your Second Amendment. You shouldn't have to go through an E-Verify database to exercise your basic fundamental human right to trade labor. for sustenance to trade labor for money to support your family. We've got no fly lists in this country. I'm against no fly lists. We've got a host of federal databases and these are all been put in place in the name of fairness or safety or something that sounds good, but at the end of the day, it's used for other purposes. You know, we've got the people discussing central bank digital currency. What's that all about? Well, that's to make sure that if you don't have the government's permission, that you're not gonna be able to exchange money. We've got real ID, okay, this real ID, everybody's now got to submit heightened biometric and personal information in order just to have an ID, a picture ID in this country. It's not state by state, it's federal at this point. And Real ID was a promise. Go back, look, a decade ago when they started Real ID. Oh, we're gonna do Real ID, so illegal aliens can't fly on airplanes, they can't go into federal buildings. We're gonna make sure they can't get driver's licenses. BS. It was put into place that it was going to solve the immigration issue, the illegal immigration issue. It didn't solve anything. It just created more mandates on law-abiding, God-fearing, honest Americans. I mean, I would hope that our side of the aisle would recognize at this point. We've seen here recently in our weaponization committee that the federal government created lists of people who should be censored. people who didn't deserve the right to speak in a forum, in a social media forum. So why are we making another list? These always get turned against us and they're never used for the purpose that they were intended for. Look at the Patriot Act. Come on folks, all of 9-11 was used to create more lists so that law-abiding Americans You could exercise their rights that were given to them by God. This is wrong. I don't know if the gentleman said it's not the time for e-verify. I would say there's never a time for e-verify. Don't hold back, my colleague from California, Mr. Korea. You're right on this. We don't need another federal database. Look, if, wow, let's try this. E-Verify, why don't we just use the Nix database for firearms? Run you through the Nix. Make sure you can pass a Nix background before you can work. I wonder if E-Verify is gonna be as accurate as Nix is. because 100,000 people a year in NICS are denied their fundamental right to exercise a Second Amendment because the government thinks they have a name similar to another person who shouldn't be allowed to own a firearm. 12 prosecutions, let me get to this point too. Out of 100,000 people, 112,000 denied in NICS in any given year, 12 get prosecuted. Wow, what a ratio. Are we gonna deport people who fail e-verify? You know, if that were in this bill, my colleague from California, I might be able to vote for this. If we were actually gonna do something, we're turning the employer into the police officer because we won't solve the problem elsewhere. But after the police officer catches the person trying to get a job, trying to work for their families, What are we gonna do with that with a person who is trying to break the law, who's trying to work without permission? Are we gonna deport this illegal alien once we've identified them? Hell no, it's not gonna happen. And another thing I'm saying, oh, it's working so great in the states. We should do this federally. If his work is so great in the states, let the states do it. We do not need another federal database like NICS, Real ID, No Fly List, Central Bank digital currencies in order for God-fearing Americans, law-abiding Americans exercise their fundamental human rights. So now you'll back.
speaker_8: Gentlemen, time's expired. Who seeks recognition? If not, the question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentleman from New York. Those in favor say yes.
speaker_9: Aye.
speaker_8: Aye. Opposed say no? No. No. In the opinion of the chair, the knows have it. The amendment is not agreed to. The roll call is requested and the clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan. Mr. Jordan votes no. Mr. Issa. Mr. Issa votes no. Mr. Buck. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana. No. Mr. Johnson and Louisiana votes no. Mr. Biggs. Mr. Biggs votes no. Mr. McClintock. Mr. McClintock votes no. Mr. Tiffany. No. Mr. Tiffany votes no. Mr. Massey.
speaker_14: Yes.
speaker_0: Mr. Massey votes yes. Mr. Roy. Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishop votes no. Ms. Sparts. Mr. Fitzgerald. Mr. Bents. Mr. Klein. Mr. Gooden. Mr. Gooden votes no. Mr. Van Drew. Mr. Van Drew votes no. Mr. Nell's. No. Mr. Nells votes no. Mr. Moore. Mr. Kiley. Ms. Hageman. Ms. Hageman votes no. Mr. Moran. Mr. Moran votes no. Ms. Lee. Mr. Hunt. Mr. Hunt votes no. Mr. Frye? Mr. Frye? Mr. Frye votes no. Mr. Nadler? Aye. Mr. Nadler votes aye. Ms. Loughgren? Yes. Ms. Lofgren votes, yes. Mr. Jackson of Georgia. Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes yes. Mr. Schiff. Mr. Schiff votes aye. Mr. Cicillini. Mr. Swallow. Mr. Lou. Mr. Liu votes aye. Ms. Jayapal. Ms. Jayapal votes aye. Mr. Corio.
speaker_13: Aye.
speaker_0: Mr. Corio votes aye. Ms. Scanlan? Aye. Ms. Scanlan votes. Aye. Mr. Negoose. Ms. McBath? Aye. Ms. Deen? Ms. Eskabar? Ms. Ross. Ms. Bush? Mr. Ivy?
speaker_8: Are there any members who wish to vote who have not?
speaker_19: I'd like to vote aye.
speaker_0: Mr. Cohen, votes aye. Mr. Fitzgerald? Mr. Fitzgerald, votes no. Mr. Benz votes no.
speaker_8: Mr. Benz votes no. Any further members wishing to vote?
speaker_0: Ms. Escobar, you are not recorded. Ms. Escobar, votes yes.
speaker_8: There are no other members to vote. The clerk will report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chairman, there are 12 eyes and 18 knows.
speaker_8: The nose have it. The amendment is not agreed to. Ms. Lofgren, seeks recognition.
speaker_2: Yes, I have an amendment at the desk. Amendment number one.
speaker_8: The clerk report the amendment.
speaker_2: I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be considered as read.
speaker_0: We'll let's sister be the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock of California offered by Ms. Lofgren of California.
speaker_8: Without objection, the amendment will be considered as red.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman. Yes. Reserve a point of order.
speaker_8: Mr. Clinktock reserves a point of order. The general woman is recognized to explain her amendment.
speaker_2: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment would postpone the imposition of E-Verify in the agriculture sector until the Secretary of Homeland Security in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture determines that it will not cause a significant shortage of persons available to perform agricultural labor services in the United States. Now, why is this important? There is a small delay in the underlying bill that is, I think, extreme and unworkable. I have served in Congress now for 29 years. And for 29 years, we have tried to reform the immigration laws. All of those reform efforts have been blocked by Republicans, either in the Senate or the House, over the decades, and to think that that will change in the next 36 months, I think is naive. But even if that were to happen, this provision would not disturb that because it allows for the implementation when there would not be a shortage. have just, and I'd like to ask unanimous consent to put into the record an email from the, the agricultural workforce coalition as well as their letter, Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: Without objection.
speaker_2: Here's what they say. The agricultural workforce coalition wanted to express our opposition to consideration this bill without concurrent meaningful legislation to address the labor crisis faced by America's farmers, ranchers, and growers. They note that mandatory E-Verify on its own would cause agricultural production to fall by $60 billion and cause food prices to increase 5 to 6 percent. This is already a struggling industry because of labor costs. And they note that mandatory E-Verify is just unworkable without reform. to the domestic workforce and to the H2A program, I will note that those reforms are embodied in the Farm Workforce Modernization Act, a bill that I authored in conjunction with Republican members of this House and stakeholders, including all of the growers in the United States and the United Farm Workers, who came to an agreement. This bill has passed the House twice last Congress and again in the Congress before and sent to the Senate where it has been blocked because we cannot get 10 Republicans to step forward to support the bill. I think it's interesting that this is not a new issue. I'd like to ask unanimous consent to put in the record a letter dated March 26, 2015. Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: Without objection.
speaker_2: I would like to, here's what that letter says. Implementing mandatory e-ferrify without also enacting strong reforms, ensuring our farmers have access to legal, reliable, and stable workforce would cause serious problems for the domestic ag industry and the economy. And they note that the H2A program is unworkable. That was signed. The only member of the Judiciary Committee who signed it was Mr. Buck, but it was also signed by the president's former chief of staff, Mark Meadows, as well as a member of the Republican leadership today, Elise Stefanik. That was true in 2015. It's true today. You know, I'll just note for the record that the damage that would be caused by this provision is immense and unwarranted and I think extreme. I do not oppose verification per se. As a matter of fact, I insisted that in the Farm Workforce Modernization Act, we have e-verify. I think if we have a workable immigration system, we need to enforce that workable immigration system. But we don't have a workable system today. Half of the farm workers in the United States don't have their papers. The vast majority of them have been here 10 or 15 years. They have children and grandchildren. If they were removed from the workforce, we would be in big trouble. We would not have food on our tables. We would do tremendous damage. to the agricultural industry. And so I think it is necessary to adopt my amendment to do otherwise is to inflict damage on a segment of our economy that I think all of our districts, or Mr. Nadler perhaps not yours, but all of our districts rely on agriculture as an economic force, but also as a source for good. We don't want to import our food. We want to support this industry. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
speaker_8: General lady yields back. Mr. McClintock, seek your recognition.
speaker_9: I withdraw my point of order and ask to speak in opposition to the amendment.
speaker_8: The point of order was drawn and the gentleman is recognized for five minutes.
speaker_9: Once again, I would point out it's already against federal law to hire an illegal alien. What the general lady is arguing is we need to make it easy to violate that law. And that's what the current situation does. E-Verify actually makes it possible to enforce that law. of this amendment prevents implementation of E-Verify's required use for the agricultural industry until the Secretary of Agriculture and the DHS Secretary certified that the use of E-Verify will quote, not cause a significant shortage of persons available reform. agricultural label or services in the United States, end quote. But that's already illegal. You know, we hear from time to time from the other side that no one is above the law. Well, what a mockery this amendment makes of that claim. This amendment says it's all right to violate the law and will simply look the other way. Now, the bill before us gives agricultural employers 30 months from the date of enactment. That's longer than any other employer before they have to start using a verify for their newly hired agricultural employees. It does not affect any of their current workforce. And if it does indeed impact agricultural labor as negatively, as the gentlelady suggests, Well, doesn't this give Congress then a firm deadline to address this in all respects? Agriculture has been shaping under H2A provisions for many, many years under both Democratic and Republican majorities, and the Congress has done nothing. This would actually give us a functional deadline to act and to address that issue comprehensively. This amendment is not just about delaying implementation of E-Verify until it's deemed that there'll be a shortage of agricultural workers. The amendment actually uses up to the secretaries the determination of whether a shortage. would be created. And thus implementation of E-Verify would be subject to the whim of whoever happens to be Secretary of DHS or Secretary of Agriculture. Those individuals happen to be opposed to the use of E-Verify in general. They've got an incentive never to certify that a shortage of workers will not be created. You know, we talk about the unwarranted transfer of authority from the legislative branch to the executive. Well, here's a prime example of that. It abrogates Congress's role in determining basic immigration law. I oppose this amendment. I'd urge my colleagues to do the same, and I yield back to balance my time.
speaker_8: Gentleman, he is back. Does anyone else seek recognition? Mr. Schiff?
speaker_4: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I move to strike the last word and speak in favor of the Lofgren Amendment.
speaker_8: The gentleman is recognized five minutes.
speaker_4: First, I want to thank my colleague Zohloffgren for putting forward this important amendment. Immigrants and migrants play an absolutely critical role in our economy, and this is so especially true in the agricultural sector. The reality is that half of the on-the-field farm workers in the United States lack immigration status. It's not an exaggeration to say that without these workers, the U.S. agricultural industry would collapse. In California, where one-third of the nation's vegetables are produced, approximately 75% of the farm workers are undocumented. This is a complicated, nuanced issue, and it is wrong to vilify immigrant workers and communities for political gain. These are the workers who help put food on our tables each night, including food on the tables of my colleagues across the aisle and their constituents. The effect of this Language on E-Verify would be absolutely devastating to the nation's agricultural industry. It would be devastating to states like California, but others as well that are so important to the fruit and vegetable agricultural sector. It would cause immediate loss of so many people to participate in the harvesting, the planting of crops. We would feel it keenly in our grocery stores on our tables. We would see it reflected in escalating prices, not to mention the capacity this has for destroying a lot of family farms. So this bill, I think, will be devastating to agriculture. I appreciate the thought that Representative Lofgren has put into her amendment and what her amendment calls for, I think is eminently reasonable. We should make sure that DHS in consultation with USDA can certify that the verification requirements won't deplete the agricultural industry of a stable labor force that's necessary to keep that industry alive and healthy on behalf of My California constituents and the agriculture sector in our home state, I urge support for this amendment and yield back.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back who seeks recognition. Mr. Biggs.
speaker_16: Move, strike the last word.
speaker_8: Recognize five minutes.
speaker_16: Thank you. So I rise in opposition of the gentlelady's amendment. And I hear the hand-wringing regarding Eve Airfai. I understand it. I think I understand it. Because I heard those arguments more than 15 years ago when Arizona was contemplating mandatory E-Verify for all employers in the state of Arizona. Well, so what's happened is we were told the same thing. Oh, your hamburgers and all of the leafy greens that we produce in Arizona would go exponentially up in price. The only thing that's driven them up in price is the Biden administration's lousy policies and the, uh, and the regulations that they've put on us. And the reality is we've had E-Verify for every employer in the state since December 31st, 2007, 16 years. And you know what? Arizona's had one of the most vibrant, healthy economies in the country. And it continues to be that way. 90% of the leafy green vegetables that you eat for seven months out of the year come from Yuma County, Arizona. Not just a small portion, 90%. If you go down to Yuma, they've turned that desert. It's a wonderful blossoming agricultural region. And the growers who were scared to death that E-Verify was going to emasculate their ability to make a profit and survive now deal quite comfortably with E-Verify. Because to actually run someone through an E-Verify system is a matter of seconds. It's a matter of seconds to get confirmation. I think that this is overdrawn, overwrought, misguided, and quite frankly, is going to be used as a scare tactic. The bottom line is the E-Verify program in Arizona works. Our economy has not folded. We've managed to continue to have a very huge impact on America's leafy greens. Eat a salad, a mixed green salad for seven, eight months out of the year, it's coming from Arizona, where we have any verify program. I think it works. I think it's about time we do it. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back. Who seeks recognition? Mr. Cohen.
speaker_19: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good to be here and be back in the committee, which I've spent much of my career in 17th year on this committee. All I have to say, it's been a pleasure spending more time in transportation. Mr. Nadler, would you yield for a question? I will. Were you consulted on this bill? No. You weren't asked for your input to try to get to be bipartisan and pass?
speaker_20: Nope.
speaker_19: Thank you, sir. Ms. Lofgren, do you yield for a question?
speaker_2: Certainly.
speaker_19: You're kind of the go-to person on immigration on this committee, and particularly on this side. Were you consulted on this bill at all?
speaker_2: I was not, although we do have a bipartisan coalition off this committee working for a bill to address agriculture and immigration.
speaker_19: To the best of your knowledge, was that bipartisan committee consulted or involved and input on this bill?
speaker_2: To the best of my knowledge, no.
speaker_19: My gosh, I'm just shocked. Transportation, we work together. And in my opening statement today, I commented on how it would be very difficult for me to vote against Mr. Garrett Graves' proposals sometimes would be different because he's such a nice guy and so easy going. We all get along great over there. I went over and saw my buddy Burchard, Mr. Sam Graves, the chairman and I are, it's just such a friendly committee and we work together and we have bipartisan bills and bipartisan agreement. It should be the same way here in judiciary. If we want to get a bill passed to help on immigration, we need to work together and try to get a bipartisan bill that can get not only through the committee. The gentleman yield? Not only through the Congress, but also through the Senate. And that would be important for our country, for our economy.
speaker_16: Mr. Cohen, would you yield?
speaker_19: To deal with dreamers who we need to see to that they get their opportunities. They basically lived their whole life in America. And these are areas that bipartisanship is important, and this committee could do a lot of good. I'd hope that we could have bipartisanship, put this bill off until we can work in a bipartisan nature.
speaker_8: So I would, I would- Would the gentleman yield for questions?
speaker_2: The gentleman yield?
speaker_19: Sure, I'd be happy to yield.
speaker_2: Thank you, Mr. Cohen. I do think that there was a reason why 61 Republicans signed a letter in 2015 urging that a similar provision not be enacted until we had a workable system for immigrant labor in the agricultural sector. Years ago, I remember a hearing that I held when I chaired the Immigration Subcommittee, and we had the then president of the Southern Baptist Convention. I always say that because his testimony I thought was so pertinent, I don't want to steal it. His testimony was that for many years, we had two signs at the southern border. One sign said no trespassing. The other sign said help wanted. And the second sign was responded to by people who came to work in agriculture. Without that workforce, we would not be able to sustain American agriculture. And that's why the entire ag sector has communicated to us the damage that will be done if we were to proceed with this bill, as is currently outlined. I think it's important with us in the Congress that we listen to people who have some expertise in the area that we're trying to legislate. I believe that when every farm group in the United States says, watch out, This is going to damage agriculture. We shouldn't assume that we know better than them, which is what this bill does. I think it would be, it's unwise, it's unworkable, and I think it's dangerous and extreme, and I hope that this amendment passes. And I would like to thank the gentleman for yielding me and I yield back to Mr. Cohen.
speaker_8: Mr. Cohen, would you yield to me for a question?
speaker_19: Surely.
speaker_8: I appreciate the kind comments about my colleague from Louisiana, Mr. Graves, but would you say I'm also a nice guy, don't you and I get along pretty well?
speaker_5: We do.
speaker_8: Okay.
speaker_19: But not as well as Mr. Graves.
speaker_8: Oh, okay, okay. Well, I also want to point out that in the last of Last Congress, when you were chair of our Constitution Subcommittee, and I was a ranking member, I don't recall you calling on me to work on your key pieces of legislation that you were presenting there. So, you know, it goes both ways.
speaker_19: We didn't have key pieces of legislation. Mostly we had hearings. We had hearings on ERA. We had hearings on Choice. We had hearings on discrimination against Asian Americans. And there might have been legislation that came forth, but it didn't come out of our subcommittee. Generally went to the full committee.
speaker_20: Mr. McEwen yield?
speaker_19: Yes, sir.
speaker_20: Does Mr. Johnson have a bad memory?
speaker_19: He might need some gingo belowbo. Thank you. I yield back.
speaker_8: Oh, mercifully, the gentleman yields back. Does anyone else seek recognition? Ms. Scanlon?
speaker_15: Yes, and first, I would just like to remind you that on the first day of this new committee coming in, I did ask if we could work together on issues regarding the council.
speaker_8: I like you so much better than Mr. Cohen. No, I'm just kidding.
speaker_15: I don't blame you.
speaker_8: Five minutes. Recognize five minutes.
speaker_15: Thank you. You know, we've heard a lot in this discussion about the impact of mandating the use of the E-Verify system in the Southwest. And I think it was called the Leafy Greens portion of the agricultural universe. But its impact goes well beyond California and Arizona and leafy greens. I grew up in northern New York in Elise Stefanix district. And I now live in Pennsylvania and represent Pennsylvania, and in both those states, the dairy industry is one of the most important parts of our agricultural economy. And the impact of the verify system on the dairy industry and the measures we're talking about here are going to decimate that industry. We do not have enough Americans who are willing to work in the dairy industry. That's something that's escalated over the years. So the point is that E-Verify is not the right tool to address the issue of having legal farm workers to work in our agricultural industry. The Farm Workforce Modernization Bill, which has passed the House twice, provides a comprehensive and appropriate method to address those concerns of who is working here, but in a way that's not going to drive up food prices even more than they are, and that is going to actually address the underlying issues.
speaker_2: So I would- Would the gentlelady yield?
speaker_15: Yes, absolutely.
speaker_2: I'm so glad that you raised this issue because currently the H-2A program, which is the only visa program available to temporary ag workers, excludes employers who are year round. It's only for seasonal. So there are ag sectors who they can't get Americans to be there in the middle of the night milking the cows and they are in some cases dependent on the undocumented workforce. I think we need to change that. I think we need to regularize so that everyone who comes in to the United States is doing so in an orderly and legal manner. That requires a change to our immigration laws which have been blocked. So if we want to really upend the cattle industry, the dairy industry, and many others, go ahead. do this bill and you will inflict tremendous damage on those sectors of our economy. There's a reason why the ag sector is saying, don't do this until we get the reforms that are necessary that will allow that sector of the economy to go ahead and hire people in a legal way and in an orderly way. And frankly, although we hear our colleagues decry the disorder at the border, which frankly, I share, the way to deal with that is to provide for an orderly way for immigration to occur. And when the economic migrants are sorted out, it will then allow us to take actions to have a more orderly system. So I thank the gentlelady for yielding to me and I yield back.
speaker_15: And I would associate myself with those very knowledgeable remarks and yield back to the chair.
speaker_8: General lady yields back. Anyone else seek recognition? Mr. Van Drew?
speaker_18: Move to strike the last word. I'm gonna be real quick. I come from an area, Southern New Jersey, nothing like what many people are familiar with in the north. Lots of agriculture, lots of blueberries, lots of cranberries, lots of farms, and forms certainly rely on workers. I get what you're saying, but here's the deal. We can't condone illegal activity and we're doing it at every level. We just leave the border open just because of certain issues. What we need to do, and you said it very well, Ms. Hofgren, is that we need an orderly legal way for people to be able to work part of the year and then go back. And we have that to some degree, but not nearly enough. That does not mean that we should say, yeah, it's okay for people just across the border because it may help certain people because it's going to hurt a lot of other people because we're not just making sure that they're farm workers. We're not just making sure that they're people that are going to work. On farms, we have people, again, I went through it before, that are related to the cartel. We're bringing drugs who are, you know, hurting children and babies and actually are using virtually slave labor. It doesn't work to allow illegal equals no good.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman yield? Would the gentleman yield? I will yield. Because I understand what you're saying, but the amendment deals with E-Verify for people who are already here. And half the farm workers in the United States are already here, don't have their documents. They came when enforcement was at a different level. They're providing an essential need. They're not coming over to the board. They're already here. And we need to regularize their status. That's why we did the farm workforce Modernization Act. But until we do that, if you just fire half the workforce that's here, there's a terrible economic price to pay. And I yield back. I thank the gentleman for yielding to me.
speaker_18: You're welcome. I very well think this may be the catapult that does that. Thank you. I yield back.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back. Does anyone else seek recognition? If not, the question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlelady from California. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed say no, no. No. In opinion of the chair, and those have it, the amendment is not agreed to, but the roll call is requested. The clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan. Mr. Issa. Mr. Buck. Mr. Buck votes no. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana.
speaker_8: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no. Mr. Biggs. Mr. Biggs votes no. Mr. McClintock. Mr. McClintock votes no. Mr. Tiffany. Mr. Massey? Mr. Massey votes no. Mr. Roy votes no. Mr. Roy votes no. Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishops. Mr. Barts votes no. Mr. Fitzgerald. Mr. Fitzgerald votes no. Mr. Bens. Mr. Bens votes no. Mr. Klein. Mr. Klein votes no. Mr. Gooden. Mr. Gooden votes no. Mr. Van Drew. Mr. Van Drew votes no. Mr. Nells? No. Mr. Nell's votes no. Mr. Moore votes no. Mr. Kiley. Ms. Hageman? No. Ms. Hageman votes no. Mr. Moran? No. Mr. Moran votes no. Ms. Lee. Mr. Hunt. Mr. Fry. Mr. Nadler.
speaker_20: Aye.
speaker_0: Mr. Nadler votes aye. Ms. Lofgren? Aye. Ms. Lofgren votes aye. Ms. Jackson Lee. Mr. Cohen? Aye. Mr. Cohen votes. I. Mr. Johnson of Georgia? Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes. Aye. Mr. Schiff? Aye. Mr. Schiff votes. Mr. Cicillini? Aye. Mr. Sissalini votes. Mr. Swalwell. Mr. Gullough? Mr. Gawaloo. Ms. Jayapal. Ms. Jayapal votes. I. Mr. Correa. Ms. Scanlan. Ms. Scanlan votes. Aye. Mr. Neguse. Ms. McBath? Aye. Ms. McBath? I. Ms. McBath? Aye. Ms. Escobar? Aye. Ms. Ross? Ms. Bush? Mr. Ivy?
speaker_8: All members voted? The clerk will report.
speaker_0: Mr. Liu, you are not recorded. Mr. Liu votes aye.
speaker_8: Clerk report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chairman, there are 11 eyes and 17 knows.
speaker_8: The nose have it. The amendment is not agreed to. Who seeks recognition?
speaker_14: Mr. Chairman, have an amendment at the desk?
speaker_2: I reserve a point of order.
speaker_8: Point order is reserved by Ms. Lofgren and the clerk will report the amendment.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. Massey of Kentucky.
speaker_8: Without objection, the amendment will be considered as read and the gentleman is recognized to explain his amendment five minutes.
speaker_14: I thank the chairman. This is very simple amendment, seven lines long. It's an exemption from E-Verify for Veterans. It reads, the requirements under this subsection shall not apply with respect to a veteran with a discharge characterized as an honorable discharge or to a person or other entity seeking to hire for employment in the United States such a veteran. Now this is not a pathway to citizenship or anything like that that's been offered before from the other side of the aisle, but this is showing our veterans the respect. If you are fit enough to put your life on the line for this country, then you are fit enough when you get out of the military to work in this country. It's very simple principle. You shouldn't, after being willing to sacrifice for our country, you shouldn't be required to ask the government, nor should your employer be required to ask the government for permission for you to work. And this is I think one of the greatest harms that could be a result of EU verify is the indignity of a false positive against a veteran saying that, oh, well, you were a veteran, you served this country, you were honorably discharged, but our database says that you can't work in this country, and we know that there are mistakes. in these verification programs. We see it NICS 100,000 false positives a year. So I think it's only fitting to give our veterans the respect they deserve. Don't subject them to another check on their fitness for employment if they were already fit to die for this country. And I yield back.
speaker_2: I withdraw my point of order.
speaker_8: Point of order is withdrawn? Mr. Nadler?
speaker_20: Mr. Chairman, I rarely find myself in agreement with Mr. Massey, but I find myself an agreement on this amendment. A veteran who has served his country, who by definition, is a, is a citizen or permanent resident should not be subject to and who has an honorable discharge should not be subject to the often flawed operations of the e-verified system. We spoke earlier of how such a false positives on an e-verified system could cause sustained loss of employment, how the remedy While there is a suit under the federal tort claims act, that takes a long time. And meanwhile, you're unemployed and unable to support your family. And I think we owe veterans more than this. So I put aside my usual disagreement and distrust of what Mr. Massey has to say. And I support his amendment. I urge everyone else to do so. I yield back.
speaker_8: Gentleman yields back. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Clintock, is recognized five minutes.
speaker_9: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the one law we have no control over is the law of unintended consequences. And the unintended but entirely predictable consequences of this amendment is quite simple. A thriving market for fraudulent veterans documents. That's the whole reason we're proposing E-Verify. Without it, right now, employers are presented with a vast array of fraudulent documents that are quite easily obtained. And they're then between a rock and a hard place. They may suspect the documents are fraudulent, but they don't dare challenge them for fear of being sued. Or they may know the documents are fraudulent, but don't care and are anxious to undercut the prices of their competitors by cheating the law. And I believe it's an insult to actual veterans who are going to find the market glutted with non-veterans pretending to be veterans.
speaker_20: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_9: No, I won't.
speaker_20: Your question?
speaker_9: So how are such false claims by veterans resolved right now? It's called stolen valor. We see it all the time. How do you check that? You consult a database maintained by the U.S. government exactly the thing that the gentleman from Kentucky is objecting to.
speaker_14: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_9: This, this, this is generally absurd. All this amendment does is to trade one set of fraudulent documents for another.
speaker_14: Would the gentleman yield just for a second?
speaker_9: When I am done.
speaker_14: Okay.
speaker_9: Thank you. The other thing I would, I would say is, is that E-Verify is not a database. It is simply the process of consulting existing databases to assure that a representation made in the marketplace is true. That is one of the few legitimate functions of a government. It's the only way that marketplaces can work. And now I'll be happy to yield my gentleman and friend from...
speaker_14: I thank the gentleman from California. Kentucky. With respect to databases, I just want to say the military or the army is part of the constitution. So keeping a list of who are our soldiers or not, I'm not objecting to that database. It's good to know who's in the army or not. So I just wanted to point that out. The other thing is the argument that this is, for reclaiming my time on that point,
speaker_9: We also happen to think it is good to know whether someone who is attempting to take a job illegally is entitled to that job. And that is what the E-Verify system is all about. It consults existing databases, just as any case of stolen valor would consult an existing database, this one of our veterans.
speaker_14: Would the gentleman yield? Sure. to the point of it consults existing databases That's the way the NICS system works as well. It consults existing databases. And many of these background checks consult existing databases. The fact that you're referencing the database doesn't mean that the database doesn't exist. And I yield back.
speaker_9: And again, what you're doing is you're creating a market for fraudulent documents, just different fraudulent documents that are presented right now.
speaker_14: Doesn't that what you verify does? Thank you.
speaker_16: Thank you. And I'm intrigued. Because I share your skepticism of Nix, but I'm thinking to myself, this is a gentleman who probably has never witnessed how the E-Verify system works when somebody comes in and is applying for a job, like I have seen. Something in the magnitude of nearly 100% get immediate responses, whether they have a valid identification or not. This is different than NICS. The NICS system is asking for something entirely different. We are asking something very uniquely American. That's what we're doing. And the reality is, I'm looking at the gentleman who I have esteem and respect for and say, you ain't never seen it happen. I have. And it works. And it works in Arizona. You're about to, and the gentleman from California is right, you're about to create a new black market fake identification.
speaker_20: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_16: I will.
speaker_20: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_16: I don't control the time. I'm yielding back to Mr. McClintock.
speaker_9: I'll yield my final seconds.
speaker_20: Well, thank you. The gentleman says it works in Arizona. It may very well work in Arizona, but all the American farm organizations say it doesn't work in our farming areas, which are predominantly north of Arizona.
speaker_9: Which is what is undermining the law itself.
speaker_8: The gentleman's time.
speaker_9: The gentleman keeps telling us no one is above.
speaker_8: The gentleman's time's expired. Mr. Correa, seek recognition? You recognize five minutes.
speaker_13: Thank you, sir. I just wanted to comment on the issue of uniquely American. Most of you may have heard me talk about, Jose Angel Garibai, the dreamer that was the first casualty of war, made the ultimate sacrifice in the Iraq war, first Iraq war. Dreamer, 21 years old, mother undocumented, He laid down his life as his country. Posthumously, we made him an American citizen. I've met with a lot of veterans, green card holders, deported veterans. One of them served 10 duties, 10 tours of duty in Afghanistan, came back challenged psychologically. I wonder if it's American to question them. whether they have the right to a job in the United States. That's what we're talking about here, folks. Veterans, veterans who have fought like most of us have not for this country and come back and simply want to work.
speaker_14: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_13: Of course.
speaker_14: When I meet with my veterans groups and my veterans back in the district, it's always one of the top three issues is employment for veterans later. And we should not seek to make it harder for them to get a job, ever. I mean, we owe it to them. And we, here in Congress, we implement so many exceptions or exemptions or we try to to create an environment where veterans can more easily get a job when they return from service to our country to service in our country. And so I agree with the gentleman, they don't need another impediment to getting a job, no matter how minutely small it might be. And I yield back.
speaker_13: I agree with my colleague from Kentucky. If you talk to veterans, they're very quiet. shy, reserved individuals who it takes a lot to get them to talk about their experience in the field of war. It takes a whole lot more to get them to apply for a job or to ask for anything at all to help them to get a job. And for us to put another impediment in front of a veteran to get a job, that is an American. Chair I hear you. Mr. Chairman.
speaker_8: gentleman yields back. Who's recognized, I mean, who seeks recognition? Just Gates?
speaker_12: Well, I would observe that perhaps in some cases, the impediment to a veteran getting a job is an illegal alien illegally competing against that veteran for a job. And that probably happens with far greater frequency than E-Verify functioning as the barrier between a veteran and employment. I believe I still represent the highest concentration of veterans and active duty service members in the entire United States Congress. And certainly while veteran employment is an issue at the top of their list, when I talk to many of them, they reflect on the fact that they serve a nation that is not serious about protecting its border, that is not serious about internally enforcing its immigration laws and the patriotism that I see reflected in veterans would certainly be in line this in a moment because I have to address for a moment. the distinguished ranking members characterization that while something might work in Arizona, it might not work in an agricultural community. And so perhaps the gentleman from Manhattan would note that if you eat any leafy green vegetable in the wintertime in the 48 state, the lower 48 of the United States, there is like a greater than 50% chance that it was grown in Yuma, Arizona, maybe closer to 80%. So while they're munching down on their butter lettuce and kale and other terrific leafy green vegetables in Greenwich Village, they can thank some Arizona farmers who are effectively using E-Verify today to ensure that that salad is delicious and well enjoyed. And I would yield to my colleague from Arizona to further opine as to the agricultural prowess of his beloved state.
speaker_16: Yeah, I would say, I thought it was remarkable. It indicates that you weren't listening to any of the comments that I've made on E-Verify earlier. 90% of all leafy green winner that comes to you and the winner comes from Yuma, Arizona. And many on this committee have come with me and we've wandered the fields and talked to the growers, the major growers who work not just in Yuma County, but in Imperial County to the west of us in California. As they produce tremendous agricultural products, some of the biggest dairy farms are in Penal County, Arizona. One of the top 15 egg producers in this country is in Maricopa County, Arizona. Somehow, somehow they all manage. to use the E-Verify system and it works for them. Which gets to the point. In Maricopa County and Pima County, you have two of the larger veteran populations in the country. I meet with veterans when I'm in the district almost weekly. I never have anyone say, gee, Andy, you know, since for the last 16 years, we've had the E-Verify system in Arizona and I'm having trouble. That's an impediment to me as a veteran to get a job. Never has that been raised. Never has that been raised. But they have raised. I'm competing with low wage illegal aliens who have come in. They have mentioned that. Well, I yield back to my friends from Mr. Biggs, and I thank you.
speaker_12: I yield to Mr. Buck.
speaker_9: I would just appreciate if my friend from Arizona would acknowledge that the water that's used for those Arizona leafy products comes from Colorado. All this Arizona stuff is making me a little ill. Let's acknowledge that where the water comes from.
speaker_12: I'll reclaim my time and yield to Mr. McClintock.
speaker_9: I just wanted to observe how ironic it is to use veterans who have sacrificed so much for the centuries to defend our borders abroad as an excuse to undermine those borders here at home. And I yield back to the gentleman.
speaker_12: Yilder Ms. Johnson.
speaker_8: Thank you. I just want to note, I'm sure Ms. Biggs would agree that if Democrats had joined us at the field hearing down in Yuma, they might have seen some of those leafy green vegetables, isn't that true?
speaker_16: Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's true.
speaker_12: And I would conclude with this point. The growers that we met with had concerns about the border. They had concerns about internal enforcement. They had concerns about how their state and local entities could better interface with federal assets. to have a full catchment apparatus for the invasion that is happening on our southern border, but not once did we hear a single concern about the efficacy of E-Verify? And undeniably, there will be, you know, kinks in this system that we will improve upon going forward. But it is certainly not a basis under these terms to not have full E-Verify, one that will make our workforce stronger. And I would suggest would make the job market even more attractive and even more competitive for our beloved veterans.
speaker_8: The gentleman yields back, who seeks recognition? Mr. Cicillini's recognized five minutes.
speaker_20: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to briefly say, we're still on the McClintock Amendment, I assume, even though the conversation has gone off. I'm sorry, Massey Amendment, yes. I rise in support of the amendment and I just want to respond to the argument that Mr. McClintock makes about creating a private market for people to pretend their veterans. I mean, if that's your response to an effort to exempt out men and women who have served our country, you could make the same argument about every other provision that Democrats have fought for to give veterans tax relief, to give veterans preferential treatment and business loans. I mean, if that's the argument, we would have no provisions in law that give some preferential treatment to the men and women who risked their lives defending our country around the world. I think it's a silly argument. I think it's an argument that is anti-veteran. I think it's an argument that would attempt to undermine or diminish the extraordinary sacrifice of our men and women in the military. I think this is a good amendment. I urge my colleagues to support it. I yield back.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back. Who seeks recognition? The gentleman of California is recognized.
speaker_20: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support
speaker_9: Tom Massey's amendment, I think it's a good amendment. Thank you for supporting veterans. Having served an act of duty, I just want to make this suggestion to you. I'm going to vote for the amendment. But before we get before, you may want to consider adding if a service member got a general discharge as well. There are service members who will be discharged from military. Maybe, you know, they couldn't perform a certain skill that was needed or whatever, but it was no reflection on who they are or their patriotism or the commitment to America. I think you may want to consider also adding in veterans who received a general discharge under honorable conditions. That would be sort of the term? General discharge under under.
speaker_14: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_9: Of course.
speaker_14: I think the gentleman makes a great point. There were some, I believe, veterans who were discharged with general discharges, for instance, refusing to take the vaccine. That is correct. Which, and they should be eligible as well.
speaker_9: Yes. So if you just consider that and absolutely.
speaker_14: All right. I'm on the rules committee. We'll fix it there.
speaker_9: Thank you.
speaker_20: You can fix it by unanimous consent.
speaker_1: Yeah.
speaker_20: Mr. Paseek's recognition. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent that Mr. Massey's amendment to his amendment be accepted. Mr. Lou's amendment to Mr. Massey's amendment be accepted.
speaker_9: Actually, it was just a suggestion that he fixed it before it gets her floor.
speaker_20: You can do it right now by saying.
speaker_9: Well, that's fine. If you want to fix it now, that'd be going.
speaker_21: I don't think there's an, we don't have an amendment in front of us that would do it.
speaker_20: Okay, okay, okay.
speaker_21: The chair now recognizes the gentlelady from Indiana.
speaker_2: Would you seeking recognition?
speaker_21: I thought you were seeking recognition?
speaker_10: No, I actually, I moved to strike the last word. And I was little into this debate, was kind of looking through the bill. We already have actually military ID as part of the documentation, there is punishment for people not providing proper documentation. So I don't think it's actually a big of a problem. It's generally simplifies the process for veterans. I think it's not a bad amendment. I think it's something that, you know, potentially could be done. And, you know, if there is a reasonable belief, we have a process, it's an already databases to verify these documentation. So, but I think it's probably sends a stronger message that we're going to make life of our veterans easier. And I know that it brings some other. opportunities, you know, that potential for fraud, which could be fixed everywhere, and we'll see how this could be implemented. But I don't see the problem with this amendment to actually allow and tell that, you know, people that willing for our freedoms maybe will make their life easier and eliminate some of the risks of a lot of databases that have false positives. And then you have to deal with that and really create a lot of headaches and a lot of people coming from the military already have a hard time really dealing with bureaucracy of our world. And that is actually a huge challenge for a lot of people. I actually would be open-minded to support this amendment and encourage my colleagues to be open-minded.
speaker_9: Well, the gentlelady yield for a moment. I yield. First of all, to address Mr. Sisolini's point, he suggests that veterans benefits can be claimed with fraudulent documents. Well, no, they can't be claimed with fraudulent documents because they are checked against a federal database. That is what V-Verify does for all employment claims. What Mr. Massey is proposing, is to allow an exception for veterans, meaning that veterans' documents will not be checked. Well, what does that do? That means you have an explosion of fraudulent veterans' documents. E-Verify puts an end to that explosion of fraudulent documents for all other reasons. You've now just opened up a new source for fraudulent veterans' claims. uh, with, without e-verify, employment claims don't need to be verified. And in fact, in states like California, it's illegal to try to verify them. And the employer has no, has, has, has, has, has, as, has, as, has, as, has, as, as, as, as, as, as, as, as, is to, uh, document. Why would we want to extend that of, of, uh, to, to, to veterans? It's unfair to them. It's unfair to the employers. And its sole purpose is to cheat. The system. If someone is verifiable, they are employed. It's just that simple. What they're doing is saying you can't verify, therefore you cannot enforce the law. And I find that deeply offensive in a nation that prides itself on the rule of law.
speaker_10: Well, and I, I, claim, my time, I actually, you bring a valid point, and maybe something that could be fixed that actually, if somebody has a reasonable belief that these documents are fraudulent, they could be verified, that makes sure that this military ID is actually legitimate military ID. We do it for the veteran benefits, and maybe things like that, the processes could be fixed, too, that it's not, you know, there is a reason, because you sign a document that say that it is actually you know, a violation of the law to lie, what you do in whatever documents you bring is in evidence, because they will still will have to show that they're actually veterans. And that maybe something could be fixed to resolve and not to deliberate. It's still to show that we want to simplify a process for veterans, but also not to create loopholes potentially, you know, in the law. And maybe we can think about that. I yield back.
speaker_21: The gentlelady yields back. The gentlelady from Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, is recognized for five.
speaker_3: dealing with. We're now killing farm owners or the farm industry by eliminating a pathway for farm workers. We've already done that and ignored that. We've ignored the principles underlying Mr. Nadler's amendment that the hodgepodge of amendments that have made up this bill does not reform immigration. The comprehensive immigration bills that we all have posed over the years, the gang of eight that is in the history books, the introduction of immigration reform that we have done, the TPS work we've done, the DACA work we've done, long overdue, not finished, young people thriving and wanting to stay in this country, haven't been any place else in terms of their years of growth, and we're just throwing them to the side. Let me take a moment to speak for the young people who need a docker fix, a final permanent situation with DACA. There are doctors, their emergency medicine, emergency paramedics, their lawyers, their teachers, they're in the military. And they don't have a final word from this nation, this committee to say, thank you, you can stay in the United States. So I have to join with the well thinking of Mr. Massey. that if you're willing to lay down your life for this country, I've always said, put on the uniform unselfishly. Who are we to say to that man, a woman with the uniform, who would bleed for this nation and die, that they don't get an exception to this harsh, burdensome addition to individuals who seek only a democratic way of life. It looks like we would stand up and applaud those seeking a democratic way of life because we know that that helps to flourish this concept of democracy. But yet in this package of immigration laws, all I can see is we are taking a baseball bat to the statute of liberty. And we're ignoring the business roundtables of America who are crying out for employees to work alongside of Americans. Let me be very clear. We have jobs for Americans, we have tech jobs for Americans, teaching jobs for American, law enforcement, firefighter jobs for Americans. But we are a growing nation and we need to be able, what have people said? What have our friends to the North said? Canada said, we need to build on the immigrant population in Canada to grow our economy. And so this very thoughtful amendment indicates discharge characterized with a discharge characterized as an honorable discharge or a person or other entity seeking to hire for employment in the United States. Remember, this is a veteran who wore the uniform and was prepared to die. Remember, this is a person who took an oath of office to defend this nation. Why would we even think that veterans could not be accepted, that there would be a danger to America for these individuals? And I was here during the Iraq and Afghan war where we posthumously named individual citizens and their families were able to be status because they were dead in the name of this country. It was an amazing experience that we found a bipartisan pathway to say that that person is dead. We even were humane enough to go into theater to make sure that people were able to fill out the appropriate paperwork as they were in combat. And then those who lost their life in the midst or did not get it chance we found a way in a humanitarian way. My friends on this panel, I support this amendment because we can do no less, Mr. Chairman, these people will die for us. We need to treat them with dignity. Veterans of America, I yield back.
speaker_14: Mr. Chairman.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields, our gentlelady yields back. Gentleman from Kentucky's recognized.
speaker_14: Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask unanimous consent to amend my amendment with the excellent recommendation of Mr. Lou and Mr. Nadler to include not just those who've received an honorable discharge, but those who've also received general discharge. So after the word, words honorable discharge, I would add or general discharge.
speaker_21: Objection.
speaker_14: Thank you. I don't know if I have any more time, but I just made, I don't have time.
speaker_9: And how will you know they have been honorably discharged or generally discharged if you don't check a federal database?
speaker_14: I don't think I can yield to on your unanimous consent, but.
speaker_21: Anyone else seek recognition? Gentlelady from California.
speaker_2: I move to strike the last words. I won't take the full five minutes, but one of the things that we have not addressed, and I think that Mr. Massey's amendment really reflects, is that this is not a seamless system, and especially we need to make sure that those who step forward to protect our country and the military get every opportunity possible to go ahead and get the jobs that they need to support themselves and their family. I just got to notice that, and here's what it says, E-Verify is experiencing intermittent system outages during case creation. So people who are using E-Verify now can't get hired because the system is down. That's something we haven't really talked about here, but it's worth noting that although the error rate has come down, the system doesn't always work. And in the case of our veterans, we should do everything possible to make sure that we are honoring their service and not disrupting their employment opportunities. And with that, I would yield back.
speaker_21: General, he is back. Well, the question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Kentucky. As amended, all those in favor say, Aye.
speaker_14: Aye.
speaker_21: All those opposed nay. Nay. In opinion of the chair, the nay is.
speaker_14: Mr. Chairman, I ask for record a vote.
speaker_21: Record a vote is requested. The clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan.
speaker_21: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan votes no. Mr. Issa. Mr. Buck. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no. Mr. Biggs. Mr. McClintock. Mr. McClintock votes no. Mr. Tiffany. Mr. Massey.
speaker_14: Yes.
speaker_0: Mr. Massey votes yes. Mr. Roy. Mr. Bishop. Ms. Sparks? Yes. Mr. Farts votes yes. Mr. Fitzgerald. Mr. Fitzgerald votes no. Mr. Bents. Mr. Bens votes no. Mr. Klein. Mr. Cline votes no. Mr. Gooden. Mr. Van Drew. Mr. Van Drew votes yes. Mr. Nells. Mr. Moore. Mr. Moore votes no. Mr. Kylie. Ms. Hageman? Ms. Hageman votes no. Mr. Moran. Mr. Moran votes no. Ms. Lee. Mr. Hunt. Mr. Fry. Mr. Nadler? Mr. Nadler votes aye. Ms. Loughgren? Aye. Ms. Loughgren votes aye. Ms. Jackson Lee votes aye. Mr. Cohen. Mr. Johnson of Georgia. Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes. Aye. Mr. Schiff? Mr. Schiff votes. Mr. Cicillini. Aye. Mr. Cicillini votes. Mr. Swalwell. Mr. Lou? Mr. Liu votes. Aye. Ms. Jaiapal. Mr. Mr. Coy, votes. I. Mr. Craya votes. Mr. Cawreya. Mr. Cranlon. Ms. Scanlan votes. I. Mr. Negoose. Ms. McBath? Ms. Ms. McBath votes. I. Ms. Ms. Ms. Ms. Escobar. Ms. Escobar votes. Aye. Ms. Ross. Ms. Bush. Mr. Ivy. Mr. Ivy, votes aye.
speaker_21: Mr. Mr. Chairman, from Arizona.
speaker_0: Mr. Biggs, you're not recorded. Mr. Biggs votes no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from California.
speaker_0: Mr. Issa, you're not recorded. No. Mr. Issa votes no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from Wisconsin.
speaker_0: Mr. Tiffany, you are not recorded. Mr. Tiffany votes no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from Texas, Mr. Gooden.
speaker_0: Mr. Gooden, votes no.
speaker_20: Mr. Gooden, Mr. Gooden, no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from Florida.
speaker_0: Mr. Gates, you're not recorded. Mr. Gates votes no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from California.
speaker_0: Mr. Swallow votes aye.
speaker_21: I am I recorded? Gentleman from North Carolina.
speaker_0: Mr. Bishop, you are not recorded.
speaker_8: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Bishop votes no.
speaker_21: And when anyone wants to be recorded, how is it? I think we're still on. We are? We need Mr. Fry. We need Mr. Fry.
speaker_20: Chairman, I believe the votes are.
speaker_21: Wait for a couple people. Come back.
speaker_16: Mr. Chairman. Regular order?
speaker_21: We have members in route, so we'll wait for them to arrive.
speaker_0: Mr. Rye? No, Mr. Rye votes, no.
speaker_21: Are we tied now?
speaker_9: Are we tied down? We do this on time, right?
speaker_21: I don't know. Are we tied? I tried fry. Where is Kylie?
nan: Gentle.
speaker_21: Gentle. Gentleman from Texas.
speaker_2: Mr. Nell's from Texas.
speaker_0: Mr. Nell's votes no.
speaker_21: I think we win. Clerk will report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chair, there are 17 eyes and 17. No.
speaker_20: Mr. Chair, you are recorded as yes.
speaker_2: Oh, very good. Thank you.
speaker_0: Mr. Kylie. Mr. Kylie votes now.
speaker_21: Gentleman from California.
speaker_0: Mr. Schiff, you are recorded as yes.
speaker_21: Nice to see. Your tax dollars pay for it. You can come in. No, but we stand in the courtesy to one more Democrat wanted to weigh in, and then Mr. Fry wants to weigh in.
speaker_9: No.
speaker_12: No.
speaker_21: Lofkin movement's next. Okay. We still want to wait? We'll save. We'll see.
speaker_5: If we're up by one, if they get here, the Democrat and ours aren't here, we'll be.
speaker_21: Hey, Ella, we're winning by one.
nan: We're ahead by one.
speaker_21: I'm just worried the more time we leave it open, the more time they get there.
speaker_1: I'm trying.
speaker_21: Mr. Chairman, I mean Mr. Ranking Member. Yeah, I'm just going to call it. If we don't get here soon. The lady from Pennsylvania.
speaker_0: Ms. Dean, you're not recorded. I vote aye. Ms. Dean votes aye.
speaker_21: Clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Report the- Mr. Chair, there are 18 ayes and 18 knows.
speaker_21: Therefore, the amendment is not agreed upon. Seeks recognition. Gentle lady from California is recognized.
speaker_2: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk, amendment number seven.
speaker_21: Clerk will report.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Ms. Laugh-Gron of California.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman, reserve a point of order.
speaker_21: Gentleman from California, reserves a point of order. General lady from California is recognized.
speaker_2: This amendment is simple. We should exempt people fleeing from communism and totalitarian dictatorships from this legislation, and we should allow them to apply for asylum as our laws intend. Now, there's been some confusion about this bill. However, I think it's important to be clear that as it stands right now, the bill would shut down asylum to the United States. Let me explain how that would work. This bill would require the DHS secretary to detain all asylum seekers or place them all in a remain in Mexico type program. If the secretary fails to do this, DHS must suspend the entry of all migrants. Now, no Congress under either Republican or Democratic leadership has ever appropriated resources that would allow the detention of all migrants or has ever directed DHS to place every migrant in a remain in Mexico program. Even former President Trump never tried to detain all migrants for the duration of their proceedings. His fiscal year 2021 appropriations request was for 60,000 detention beds. And in 2020, at the height of the pandemic and border closures, US Customs and Border Protection still processed 440,000 migrants in immigration proceedings. Further, as the Trump and Biden administration have noted, and as was confirmed by the Supreme Court, Mexico must agree to any remain in Mexico style program. It can't be implemented unilaterally. Mexico opposes restarting the program. Because of this, the passage of this bill will result in the asylum system being shut down completely. Now at one time, although there were disagreements between Republicans and Democrats, there was never a disagreement. that we should provide safe haven to those who are fleeing from communism. When Saigon fell and Vietnamese fled from that communist regime, both Republicans and Democrats welcomed them. We put into law protection for Nicaraguans who were fleeing from communism and the Cubans who fled from communism under Castro, they were welcomed by both Democrats and Republicans. We welcomed Russians who were fleeing from communism as reflected in the Lautenburg Amendment. Venezuelans who were fleeing from that communist regime have been protected under the Biden administration's protective orders. This would turn our back on those who are fleeing from communism. That's not the America I grew up in. Now, there are plenty of things that I disagree with in this bill. I consider it extreme in many regards. But I'm hopeful that at least we can find this common ground as we always have historically. Let us provide safe haven for those who are fleeing from communism and who want to come here and join us as Americans standing up for freedom. Those who are fleeing communist China, Russians, Nicaraguans, Cubans, Venezuelans, we should welcome them who are fleeing from communism and understand that people who flee from communism and who come to America do so because they value freedom just as we do.
speaker_12: Will generally yield?
speaker_2: Not until I'm finished. Although it's been represented that this bill does not in fact preclude application for asylum, as I have mentioned, because of its drafting, in fact, it will prevent these individuals who are fleeing from communism to have the capacity to apply for asylum, as we have always allowed. There was a time when colleagues on both sides of the aisle claimed to oppose communism, claim to oppose totalitarian dictatorships. We welcome people fleeing from these totalitarian communist regimes. I hope that we can come together. Once again, to oppose communism and to stand up for freedom and to allow those fleeing these totalitarian communist regimes to file for political asylum in our country. And with that, I see my time has expired.
speaker_21: General Leal yields back. Gentleman from California is recognized.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman, first, I would withdraw my point of order.
speaker_21: Gentleman, withdraws his point of order is recognized now.
speaker_9: First, this does not shut down asylum claims. In fact, it enhances our ability to process asylum claims by removing the incentives that millions of people have taken to file fraudulent claims, clog the system, and make legitimate claimants wait years and years to resolve their situation. I would remind the gentlelady that the law already requires that every person illegally entering the country and claiming asylum has to be detained. That is the law. As Justice Alito pointed out, shall be detained means shall be detained. The fact that this administration is thumbing its nose at that law, ignoring that law, refusing to see that that law be faithfully executed, doesn't change the law. What this measure does is to reinforce that law, but offer alternatives, including providing for other venues to wait in Mexico. The gentlelady is wrong that awaiting in Mexico requires Mexico's consent. Mexico admitted these people into their country, and it is to their country that they're being turned back. That was the decision that Mexico made when it admitted them. And by the way, the purpose of asylum is to separate yourself from a government that is deliberately persecuting you because of your race, ethnicity, or your religious or political beliefs. Once they have arrived in Mexico, they have a right to apply for asylum in Mexico because they have now crossed the border that separates themselves from the government that is persecuting them. They do not have a right to pass through various countries. and to claim asylum in the United States. But this bill still allows them to do so. They just are either to be detained, be turned back to Mexico, which had accepted them in the first place, or also allows for safe third country agreements as well. MPP and safe third country agreements were in place under the Trump administration. They had successfully reduced the number of fraudulent claims to de minimis amounts. They were allowing us then to actually process the legitimate claims that now have to wait years for processing. And unfortunately, on his very first day in office, Mr. Biden terminated MPP and shortly thereafter. the safe third country agreements that had been negotiated. Again, I want to emphasize this preserves the right of every person to file a claim of asylum. It simply requires, as the law does, that they be detained or they can be turned back and await a decision in Mexico or in any safe third country that the administration has negotiated with. So with that I yield back.
speaker_12: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_20: Mr. Chairman?
speaker_9: Yes, I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
speaker_12: I appreciate the gentleman yielding. In addition to the concerns that gentlemen from California has shared, there seems to be a great deal of vagueness in the amendment. It requires, I guess, the department to assess what governments constitute communist or totalitarian dictatorships. And I'm left wondering, like, would someone coming here from Saudi Arabia? be considered someone fleeing a totalitarian dictatorship.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_12: It's not my time, but if it's okay with Mr. McClintock.
speaker_2: I would just note that the Immigration Nationality Act itself has these provisions within it. It's nothing new.
speaker_12: Right. I guess so as Mr. McClintock would allow it to continue yielding me the time, my concern is that that's a dynamic feature of governance in a lot of places, right? Like we've seen military coups in Guinea, Burkina Faso, Guyana. So in those places where there's a coup, is it considered a totalitarian dictatorship? I don't know. Is communists in the eye of the boat? Would someone fleeing from Canada?
speaker_2: Of course not. Of course not.
speaker_9: And I don't know.
speaker_2: If the gentleman would further yield.
speaker_12: It's Mr. McClintock.
speaker_9: I need to actually reclaim my time to make one final point. And that is that we have watched this administration. exploit any loophole they can possibly find in the laws to invalidate those laws. What the General Ladies Amendment does, in addition to other things, is to give them a huge loophole with which to undo the border security of our country. Again, every legitimate asylum claim can be filed and under this bill will be expedited because it removes the incentives to make illegitimate, fraudulent asylum claims by ceasing to reward those who make them with admission, indefinite residency, indefinite work authorization and all sorts of free goods and services.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back. The gentleman from New York is recognized.
speaker_20: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. McClintock's objections make no sense. They assume that there is a third party country. Let's take communist dictatorships like Vietnam or China or totalitarian regimes like Russia. There is no third party country. They come directly here. From Russia, they could just go to Alaska. Exactly. They can see it from there. So the point is there is no third party. There is no necessary third country from many totalitarian and communist regimes.
speaker_16: With June yield.
speaker_20: Now, if you're talking, if you're talking about regimes in Latin America, yes, There are, there are, there may be third countries. But if you're talking about most totalitarian and communist regimes, there are no third countries. So the objection to this amendment makes no sense. And yes, I'll yield.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman you?
speaker_20: I'll yield to the gentlelady.
speaker_2: Yeah, I just want to briefly comment on the objections made. The Immigration Nationality Act has various provisions relative to communism. Right now, if you're a communist, you're not admissible. The United States, the Department of Homeland Security and the Immigration Service makes a determination, an individual determination, that you might be inadmissible for that purpose. This is nothing new. Right now, they make a determination about if you're fleeing from communism, that is nothing new. They would not, under any circumstances, describe democratic countries as a communist regime. That's never happened and it's not going to happen. This is really completely rooted in the current Immigration and Nationality Act. And I would just note, I understand the ranking members point, but there are occasions when people present themselves at our border because they were unable to get travel documents into the United States, and they have a claim for political asylum that has always been righteous in the United States. They're fleeing from communism and really because We have never, no one has ever, not Mr. Trump, not Mr. Biden, requested enough money to incarcerate every single person who appears at the border. It has never happened and it couldn't happen, which means that the provisions in this bill that shut down the asylum provisions go into effect. And so all of these people who are fleeing from communism will not be permitted to present and to have their claim for asylum. And frankly, I find it of great concern. that we would turn our back on our history of providing safe haven to victims of communism by saying, well, they went through a third country and therefore we're not going to provide haven. We've never done that. We didn't do it when the Vietnamese fled the communist regime. We didn't do it when the Cubans fled Castro. We didn't do it when the Nicaraguans fled communism. And I don't think we should start doing that now. And I think the gentleman for yielding to me and yield back.
speaker_20: And I clearly, and I, and I, I clearly agree.
speaker_21: Committee will be in order.
speaker_20: And I clearly agree with the gentlelady, although I point out that the question doesn't even arise because many times there is no third country, but whether there is or not, she is correct. We ought to be admitting refugees from communism and totalitarianism, and I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back, gentleman from Arizona is recognized.
speaker_16: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To hear the ranking member, impugned the argument of the gentleman from California as being absurd and then to make one of the most bizarre arguments ever to say that there's no safe third country from people coming from communist states is is absolutely some kind of Orwellian vision. It's clearly made from someone who doesn't get to the border, doesn't know the border, doesn't go down, doesn't talk to CBP, doesn't talk to agents, doesn't bother to interview literally hundreds of people who are coming across. Because I could tell you right now, let's look at the Tucson sector. Do you know outside of Mexico what the third highest country of origin is from individuals coming into the Tucson sector? South Asian Indians. From India, for Pete's sakes. And why do they end up over in Tucson sector? I have no idea because it's one of the most rugged sectors that you come across. And that's the give-ups. We also have people from like, I think it's over 100 countries already in this fiscal year. So the Tucson sector, you go to Yuma sector. And you meet people as you walk up and they're from all over the world. I've been from Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, They have like 150 countries that have been represented. And you can go up and you can ask them, why are you coming here? Where'd you come from? Many of them will tell you that we flew in to Mexico City or Cancun on a Mexican tourist visa. We then took a flight to Mexicali. Some have grabbed Ubers from Mexicali, came on over to Los Algodones or San Luis, and walked across. What an absurd argument to make. There are many third, in almost every case, there is a safe third state, which is the international law. That's the norm. I'm going to yield to the gentleman from California.
speaker_9: Thank you. I'd also point out in response to the gentlelady that Simply living in a communist country does not give you a right to come to this country. Under asylum law, you must have been singled out by that government for persecution because of your race, religion, ethnicity, or political or religious beliefs. In fact, in fiscal year 22, The asylum grant rate for aliens from Cuba was 8% with 86% of cases being withdrawn, not adjudicated, abandoned, or other, likely adjustment. Grant rate for Nicaraguan's 26%, for Venezuelans, 34%, for Haitians, 6%. To the gentleman from New York, if someone comes directly to this country and not through a third country, the law requires them to be detained until their asylum case is heard. That is to assure that you don't have the perverse incentive to file a fraudulent claim and get immediate admission into the country. This administration, if memory serves me, has closed 7,000 detention beds and has another 6,000 vacant at this moment. In addition to that, this gives the other option of the administration negotiating safe third country agreements and having a safe haven for claimants to stay there as well. So the representations that are made on this bill are simply ludicrous. And what the Democrats are doing is making a mockery of legitimate asylum claims that are now impossible for us, are very difficult for us to process because they have to wait years, because the Democrats have now engineered a system where fraudulent claims are absolutely glutting our courts.
speaker_19: And I yield back to the gentleman.
speaker_16: I yield to the gentleman from California, Mr. Is.
speaker_19: I don't want to take separate time, because I think we all know how this is going to end inappropriately. But, you know, having a large section of the border and having seen those people from so many countries, I also have visited many of the countries that the ranking member is talking about. And I might remind people that... America invest heavily in Vietnam, a communist country. America invests in many of these countries. As much as I oppose communism, half of all the Democrats when we had a vote against socialism wouldn't vote for denouncing socialism. I oppose it, but that doesn't mean that people there are automatically being persecuted or in some other way eligible for it. So I think the idea that the criteria is, the governance of a country, particularly if you look at socialism, which there are plenty of democracies that are really pretty socialist, is certainly a undefinable term. And a gentlelady and the ranking member know that. And I thank the gentleman for yielding.
speaker_21: The gentleman's home inspire yields back. The gentleman from California is recognized.
speaker_4: Thank you, Chairman. I speak in favor of Representative Loughburn's amendment. This is a very simple amendment that would exempt people fleeing communist and totalitarian dictatorships from the provisions of this bill, provisions which essentially would shut down asylum. And the reason this bill shuts down asylum is it requires the Secretary of DHS to detain all asylum seekers or failing to do so, require them to be placed in a remain in Mexico type program. If the Secretary fails to do this, DHS must suspend the entry of all migrants. And the reality is, much as my colleagues may try to dispute this, they can't. Unless Mexico is willing to enforce, they remain in Mexico policy, it will not work. And they won't. And so it's a fiction to imagine that that is a viable alternative, or that this would not have the effect of shutting down asylum, it would. The tragedy that would mean for people fleeing communist countries and communist dictatorships would be enormous. I have a large population in my district of people that have fled communist China. I have also a significant population in the Vietnamese community that have fled communism in Vietnam to the south of my district in Orange County. There is an even more substantial population of people that have fled communism in Asia. And I shudder to think of where they might be if the majority's provisions were the law when they came here or tried. And at a time when the autocrats are on the rise and dictatorships are on the rise, at a time when we are an ideological struggle over democracy, the idea that we would shut our doors to people fleeing communist dictatorship is anathema. I support the communities that have come here, that have come here in search of a better life, that have fled repressive regimes, the totalitarianism of China, which is on the march around the world as they make the case that American democracy doesn't work. When we shut our borders and shut our country to people seeing to lawfully obtain asylum here. It not only makes the job of those communist regimes easier, but it undermines our legacy, our proud legacy, as a country that welcomes people fleeing dictatorship. So I'm proud to support my colleague's amendment I want to continue to see people fleeing the regimes in Venezuela and in Cuba, in Nicaragua, in fleeing the communist regime in China and Vietnam or Cambodia in seek of a better life here. I want to make sure those doors of asylum are not closed. This bill would close them. This amendment would make sure that we exempt people fleeing those regimes, and I urge your support.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back. The gentleman from Louisiana is recognized for five.
speaker_8: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I oppose this amendment. I hope that all of my colleagues will do the same. And I just want to comment briefly on what Mr. Schiff said. I'm glad to hear our colleagues on the other side of the aisle acknowledge the obvious facts that communism is on the rise. Totalitarian regimes around the globe are on the march. But my friends, the reason that is happening is because we are projecting weakness on the world stage. As Ronald Reagan reminded us, we maintain peace through strength, a strong America, the perception of a strong America, is what has kept the terrorists and tyrants and dictators and communists at bay since World War II. But right now we're projecting that we are not a great superpower, that we are not resolved to fight communism. We are not resolved to fight totalitarianism. And we need to do that. But the way we do that is not to erase our national borders. Because if we erase our borders, then we have no national security. We have no strength here. We have no sovereignty. If you don't have a border, you don't have a sovereign country. So how could we be the great beacon of freedom to oppose these other regimes around the globe. Of course we have great sympathy for people who live under these regimes, but listen, I'm just looking at the very text of Ms. Lofgren's amendment. It says, as was noted, it's very subjective language that this should not apply with respect to an alien fleeing a country, the government of which is controlled by a communist or other totalitarian dictatorship. That's quote from her amendment. I just, out of curiosity, I just Googled real quickly those terms, communist nation, right? Wikipedia, okay, the great source of all things that is objective and true, of course. Just Wikipedia, they list four nations that are, they describe as Marxist-Leninist states, that's China, Cuba, Vietnam, we know those. They list 14 countries that are labeled non-Marxist-Leninist states, but also totalitarian or communist in flavor, Algeria, Guyana, Nepal, Nicaragua, Tanzania, a bunch of others. And then they say there's a whole other category. There are multiple states with communist or socialist parties leading the government sometimes together. Such states are not considered to technically be communist or socialist or socialist or socialist states because the countries themselves do not provide a constitutional role for their ruling socialist communist parties or deemed socialism a state ideology. However, if the communist are running the country, then under the concern that's expressed here, all those people would need to flee and seek asylum. Listen, so there are, I mean, there's so many countries. There's a whole bunch on that list as well, Algeria, Angola, Honduras, Mozambique, Syria, Venezuela, it goes on and on. So.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_8: I won't because listen, I know you're going to give it an argument here, but I'm saying under the language that is presented here, all these countries I've listed in a whole bunch of others would be exempt from the bill. What we're trying to do is clean up the asylum system. We're trying to make it work that people on this side of the aisle are in favor of a lawful, important asylum system. It's who we are in America. We're the most benevolent nation in the history of the world. We want to help those who are fleeing legitimate persecution. But you cannot erase the border and you cannot put out a welcome mat and exempt people from half the countries around the world because they have bad leaders. We won't be able to be the strong nation that we have to be to stand for freedom and defend it if we do that.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman you?
speaker_8: I am, I will not yield. I will yield back my time. You can yield me? Oh, I'm sorry, yield to the chairman. I thought I couldn't interpret what you're willing.
speaker_21: I thank the gentleman for yielding. It seems to me that the amendments offered by our friends on the other side would keep what we currently have, the status quo, wouldn't change what's going on now. And what's going on now? Chaos. Right. We know it's chaos. It's been chaos for 28 months. There's no number, there's no figure, there's no stat, there's nothing you can look at that says it's not a chaotic situation. And the Democrats amendment say, let's keep that in place. I think we should probably change it. That's what Mr. McClintock's bill does. It's combined bills that make the system work. Actually let a legitimate asylum seekers get their adjudication done and enter the country from communist country for wherever they come, but you gotta do it the right way, you gotta do it in a way consistent with the law. That's what this does. We heard from a sheriff in Yuma who said 30 years in law enforcement in Arizona said, what is the situation down on the border? He said it's the worst it's been in my 30 years in law enforcement. And that has happened. Mr. McClintock gave the numbers that started our hearing today. That has happened in literally 28 months. And it started on day one. And the Democrats say, keep that, keep that in place. I think the country wants us to change it. And guess what's happening? There's a whole caravan of more people coming when Title 42 goes away. We should maybe demonstrate that we're trying to fix the problem. And that's what this bill does. And I want to thank Mr. Johnson, Mr. McClintock, and our whole team who worked on this to put together something that changes the chaos that we all know is currently happening. on our southern board.
speaker_8: Mr. Chairman, who came on my time 10 seconds. I filed the, I authored the asylum provision to this bill. Yep. And I've been bringing this language since I got to Congress seven years ago. It's about time we fix it so that it will work again. I yield back.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back. The gentleman from California seeks recognition.
speaker_9: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I oppose communism. That's why I support this amendment. And now I'm going to yield my time to Representative Schiff.
speaker_4: I thank the gentleman for yielding and I won't need all of the time, but I did want to respond to my colleague on the other side of the aisle who asked the question, why is there a increase in totalitarianism and a rise of strongman dictators around the world? And his suggestion was, well, this is because we have a Democrat as president. But I will remind my colleague, wasn't a Democrat as president, who was exchanging love letters with Kim Jong-un. It wasn't a Democrat as president that thought that we ought to cozy up to a North Korean totalitarian regime and described correspondence with the leader of that, the supreme leader of that country is beautiful and wonderful. That wasn't a Democratic president. Nor was it a Democratic president that cozyed up to the Kremlin dictator that stood in Helsinki side by side with a Kremlin dictator and said that he trusted the Russian dictator more than his own intelligence agencies. It wasn't a Democratic president that sought at every stage to undermine NATO, to berate NATO, to weaken NATO, the most incredible gift we could give to totalitarian regimes around the world. It wasn't a Democratic president that's so frayed and often tore apart our alliances with other countries that made it politically less than viable even to be associated with the presidency of the United States. That was a Republican president. It was under the last administration that we saw this rise of the autocrat and those autocrats were embraced whether they were autocrats like Bolsonaro in Brazil or Duterte in the Philippines or Vladimir Putin in Moscow. And at a time like this when democracy is being challenged, this is the last time when we should decide that people seeking asylum from these dictatorships and these totalitarian regimes that we're going to turn our back on them. And we're going to say, if you don't remain in Mexico, then you don't get to come here. It doesn't matter where you come from, it doesn't matter whether you're fleeing communism or not. All that rhetoric about being tough on communism, well, none of that really matters. And so through this underlying bill, we're telling people in those regimes, you better stay where you are because the doors to the United States For those who are seeking to lawfully immigrate into this country are closed. Because it's just good politics to close those doors. That's what this underlying bill says. It's good politics to close our doors to people seeking to flee repressive regimes. And all the talk about standing up to communism and standing up to China is just talk. Because the politics is just too good to be resisted. Well, if we're going to maintain our legacy as a country that welcomes refugees from these tyrannical regimes, this is the wrong way to do it. And I once again urge support for the Lofgren amendment. I yield back.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman yield from me?
speaker_4: I yield to the gentlewoman.
speaker_2: Well, actually, it's Mr. Lucey.
speaker_4: I will.
speaker_9: I will yield to Representative Lofkin.
speaker_2: I just wanted to make a couple of quick comments. I think all of us would be better off if we looked at the Immigration and Nationality Act for guidance rather than Wikipedia, much as I love Wikipedia. The definition of communism is not new in the Immigration and Nationality Act. It is used to exclude people who are communists. And it has been used historically many times to allow for the approval of asylum applications when someone is fleeing from a communist regime. This is nothing new. It's nothing exotic. This is what America has done for many years. This bill would shut that down. Because of the way it's crafted, nobody is going to be able to submit an application to see whether they are legitimately fleeing from persecution from a communist regime. That is at odds with our history. It is at odds with our promise as the land of freedom and the beacon of hope. And I think it is simply a very extreme mistake for this Congress to take that step. And I yield back to the gentleman. Thank him for.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back to the gentleman in the end is recognized.
speaker_10: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, all this hearing turning political debates, but we do have a real problem at the border. You know, someone who actually lived in communist country under totalitarian regime, someone who came here as a legal immigrant and has enormous amount of friends who actually escape this dictatorship. I am very disappointed that we cannot have a healthy conversation. And a lot of my friends, a lot of people in my district, like people from Nicaragua are telling me Victoria, what can we do? We have legitimate people in life and death situation that cannot come this country legally. We have some Ukrainian refugees that they have to go through the border illegally because they cannot get here legally. And if somebody's coming from totalitarian regime from Russia doesn't mean that they are actually prosecuted by Putin. We have to make sure that we tighten the processes. What this bill does is misrepresented here. The bill actually dissentivized the president not enforce the law for legal people. that want to come to this country, contribute to our country, who love freedoms to actually come in into this country. Because it says, we need to find the processes, we need to tighten the processes to help legitimate people. And if you cannot figure out, then you have to shut down the border. And that is the last resort. And we need to push on president to start doing this and not to wait to last resort because what's happening in the country is insanity. We do not know who is coming into the country and this is danger, national security danger. We have human drug trafficking, child trafficking, and women trafficking, enriching cartels. And we're not fighting that and let Mexico to get away with that. Now in cohorts with China, harassing our farmers, not enforcing law, we do nothing about it. But then we have people that actually have legally want to come here and want to do and be what made this beauty of this country, what brought to all of the people that love this freedoms. We're not able to actually process that. They have to wait for years. It's happened the same as Afghanistan. We abandoned some allies and people that tried to help our country and brought some people with challenges.
speaker_7: We didn't even go through the proper system.
speaker_10: And now we're not dealing with that. I think our legal system is so broken. And this is not politics. This is a people's life. It's a life and death situation because lawlessness can hurt people within our country and also us not be able to help people with legitimate claims. It can have them die. And we're still talking politics. We're not running in the presidential election here. We as our independent branch, have to oversee our presidents, regardless who they are, Republican and Democrats, and call them out if they're not enforcing the law. And we need to tighten the law that it doesn't allow president to abuse the law, to abuse intent. So what is this bill does is tightened the law to make sure that it's not abuse and actually serves with the people. And we have to put some ways, enforcement mechanism for president to say, you know what, if you cannot figure it out what to do, then you will not be able to do this process. So it dissentivizes and deter our executive branch to be dysfunctional and not doing what they're doing. I truly believe we don't have enough enforcement mechanisms. you know, to actually do the right thing and do the things that legally, it's becoming impossible to do anything legal in this country. This is like mob rule, this is like lawlessness. You know, we become in the country where we have bandits running the show in our cities. I think this is awful for the people. And then we want to take rights from law Biden's citizens. This is insanity. This is what dictators do. That's what they try to do to centralize power. And I truly believe this institution should have a capacity on a bipartisan basis to agree how we can improve some of these processes. not try to politics because we play in politics with people's lives. And this is not just life, it's a life and death situation. This is a real serious issues that we're not willing to address how we can secure the border, improve the processes and benefit our national interest, we will help a lot of great people to contribute to our country. And I'm sick and tired of all of these worthless debates about warding and everything else. I hope Congress at some point will start to be able to govern. And as unfortunately we're turning into real circus with the clowns here doing political messaging in these committees. It's embarrassing for me on behalf of the American people. And I hope at some point we can get together and find some common grind. I yield back.
speaker_21: General Leady Yields back. The question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from, did you want to go, the gentleman from Texas is recognized.
speaker_5: I thank the chairman, and I'll try to keep it brief. I don't know that we need to repeat too much what's been said, but my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are presenting false propositions with respect to the claim that individuals will not be able to claim asylum. It's just not true. It's just simply not true. And that it's not true under when President Trump was in office. It's not true that you can't claim asylum now. But I will say that under the current system being run by the Biden administration, flooding the system is making it much more difficult for people with legitimate asylum claims to be heard. That's the truth. Those are the actual facts. And putting forward something to seem like it's doing something by saying, oh, we're gonna do this for certain individuals from communist countries. So it seems like we're doing something to help individuals. We allow a million odd people every year to have green cards coming to the United States of America. We have a very robust legal system. We have had tens of thousands of people from communist countries come to the United States under our legal system. But by allowing the illegal system to undermine our ability to secure the border, we are making extremely difficult for people to come here legally. When people come here and claim asylum and we have everybody claiming asylum because this administration has said, and my Democratic colleagues have countenanced, that if you come to the United States and you claim asylum, you will be released into the United States. That is precisely what the Democratic policy is. The fact of the matter is the legislation that we're putting forward would make it clear that an individual can claim asylum and that we would process them much more efficiently and effectively under current law. Under current law, individuals are supposed to be detained. That's the truth. And the data of what we're experiencing right now is actually astounding. We're not talking about the number of people who are Chinese nationals that have been stopped at our border. Talking about the number of people who have stopped that are the terrorist screening data set, the 98 aliens from 2022 or the 69 aliens in the first five months of this fiscal year on the terrorist screening data set. Remember that it was the Biden administration that suspended the migrant protection protocols. which led to a surge in illegal border crossings immediately upon President Biden coming to office. It was he who decided to suspend the migrant protection protocols that caused the surge which actually endangers migrants and floods our system. It is this administration, which is staring down in May to the end of Title 42. Title 42, which has been used to turn away half to two thirds of the 2.7 million single people encountered at the border. Think about that. All during a time when there has not been a COVID emergency. They've been using it from border enforcement and now want to claim that if we have policies in place, to ensure that we're going to follow the law to detain, process legitimate asylum claims, and then have a process for returning to Mexico if there's not detention capacity, precisely the way we are kind of using the authority under Title 42, which many of my Democratic colleagues have said they support. that somehow that's anti-migrant, that somehow that's anti-asylum when we are processing thousands of legitimate asylum claims every single day. It's simply not true. And the American people need to know that it's not true. And I oppose this amendment.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlelady from California. All those in favor say aye.
speaker_2: Aye.
speaker_21: All those in opposed say no? No.
speaker_5: No.
speaker_21: In the opinion, the chair, the knows have it.
speaker_2: Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote.
speaker_21: Requested the clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan? No. Mr. Jordan votes no. Mr. Issa. Mr. Bucke. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson, Louisiana. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no. Mr. Biggs? Mr. Biggs votes no. Mr. McClintock? No. Mr. McClintock votes no. Mr. Tiffany? No. Mr. Massey votes no. Mr. Roy? No. Mr. Roy votes no. Mr. Bishop. Ms. Sparts? No. Mr. Fitzgerald votes no. Mr. Fitzgerald?
speaker_21: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no. Mr. Benz. Mr. Klein? No. Mr. Klein votes no. Mr. Gooden? Mr. Van Drew. Mr. Nell? No. Mr. Nells votes no. Mr. Moore? No. Mr. Moore votes no. Mr. Kiley votes no. Ms. Hageman. Mr. Moran. Ms. Lee? Ms. Lee votes no. Mr. Hunt. Mr. Frye? Mr. Fratt votes no. Mr. Nadler. Ms. Loughgren? Aye. Ms. Loughgren votes aye. Ms. Jackson Lee? Mr. Cohen. Mr. Johnson of Georgia. Mr. Schiff. Mr. Schiff votes. I. Mr. Cicillini. Mr. Swalwell. Mr. Swallow votes. Aye. Mr. Liu. Ms. Gawallell votes. Aye. Mr. Aye. Mr. Gapal. That's aye. Mr. Correa votes. I. Ms. Scanlan. Ms. Scanlan votes. I. Mr. Neguse. Ms. McBath. Shippon and then, Ms. Dean. Ms. Escobar. Ms. Escobar votes. I, Ms. Ross. Ms. Bush. Mr. Ivy.
speaker_21: All members voted. Mr. Gentleman from California.
speaker_0: Mr. Liu, you are not recorded. Mr. Liu votes aye.
speaker_21: Gentleman from North Carolina.
speaker_0: Mr. Bishop, you are not recorded. Mr. Bishop votes no.
speaker_21: Gentlelady from Wyoming.
speaker_0: Ms. Hagerman, you are not recorded. Ms. Hagerman votes no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from Texas.
speaker_0: Mr. Gooden. Mr. Gooden votes no.
speaker_21: Clerk will report. Gentleman from Florida.
speaker_0: Mr. Gates, you're not recorded. Mr. Gates votes no.
speaker_5: Clerk will report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chair, there are eight eyes and 21 knows.
speaker_21: The amendment is not agreed upon. The gentleman from Texas is recognized for an amendment.
speaker_5: Mr. Chairman of amendment at the desk.
speaker_21: Clerk will report.
speaker_2: I reserve a point of order, sir.
speaker_21: Gentlelady from California Reserve's point of order. I want to make sure where the clerk has the proper amendment. Yeah, we're distributing the amendment now.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClend Talk offered by Mr. Roy of Texas.
speaker_21: Without objection, the amendment will be considered as read. The gentleman from Texas is recognized to speak on his amendment.
speaker_5: Mr. Chairman, thank you. I offer an amendment now that is being distributed that people will be able to see. I will take up there's three parts to the amendment. I will discuss the first part last, the second part being a rule of construction. that is in reference to unaccompanied alien children with respect to what we're amending with TVPRA. I know we will be debating that subject at length later, but this is simply a rule of construction to make sure and clarify certain specific provisions, a screening of such a child for credible fear. of return to his or her country of origin, screening of such a child to determine whether he or she was a victim of trafficking, Department of Health and Human Services Policy and effect on the date of enactment of this act requires, requiring a home study for such a child if he or she is under 12 years of age. We believe this will help just clarify and ensure the intent of what we're trying to do with provisions relating to unaccompanied alien children, ensuring that they're returned safely to their families. As we currently do under our current law, this is trying to align that with what we do with Mexico and Canada, for example. And this is just some clarifying language. The next section with respect to detention facilities, the issue is the concern has been raised about how much we have with respect to detention. with some concerns about whether or not that means people will not be allowed into the country and be detained for the adjudication of asylum claim. So this language would say that we should return the detention facilities to the level that we're in operation in January of 2021, and to ensure, I think at least another 5,000 beds, to ensure that we have sufficient detention facilities, to have people housed during the adjudication of a claim. We think that's an important part of this as well, so we're putting that forward. And finally, and most importantly, legislative process works best when we have engaged in thorough conversation. We're having a thorough debate and conversation on our side of the aisle, while unfortunately my colleagues on the other side of the aisle bury their head in the sand and refuse to acknowledge the crisis of the border. So we have been going through making sure we've got language to accomplish the objective that we've had from the beginning, which is to ensure that we no longer release people into the United States contrary to existing law, and in so doing, ensure that we are giving people the ability to have a legitimate claim to asylum for credible fear of persecution for the religious beliefs or political beliefs, that those individuals will be given the ability to have that asylum claim heard. but without allowing this administration continue to abuse the asylum laws and the parole laws, which we'll discuss later, by releasing people into the United States, which is causing the magnet, which is empowering cartels, which is empowering China, which is causing migrants to die, which is causing Americans to die, which is causing fentanyl to come into the United States, and we're seeking to stop that. So we have agreed to strike the section that is in this amendment, which would be the provision that had been a part of H.R. 29, we're maintaining a piece of H.R. 29 that is the part for the required suspension of entry. We believe that we have found a better way to do that to ensure that people have that the intent of what we're trying to do ensures that individuals will have their asylum claims heard, but that the rule of law will sustain, and that we'll be able to either detain or have expedited removal, or have safe third country, or be able to have people await in Mexico and otherwise have their claims to asylum be heard. That is the intent of what we're trying to accomplish. So we are working to do that by offering this amendment to strike that particular section within the draft amendment in the nature of a substitute that everybody has. With that, I would yield back to the chairman.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back, who seeks recognition. One second. There's a gentlelady from California system.
speaker_2: I'm sorry, this is a long amendment we're trying to figure it out. I do withdraw my point of order. Okay.
speaker_21: Who seeks recognition? Gentleman from Florida is recognized.
speaker_12: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I am in support of the Roy amendment. There should be uniform rules in this country for how unaccompanied children are treated when they come to our border. We shouldn't have a different set of rules for different countries. And unfortunately, that confusion is what we see in the system now. The fixes that undergird the philosophy of the Roy Amendment actually have been supported throughout time by both Democrats and Republicans. In 2014, when we had a crisis of unaccompanied children at our border, then President Obama requested that Congress amend the law that created the incentives for children to come to the United States without parents or authorization. And even in 2021, President Biden, when speaking freely and pressed by a reporter, stated that he also thought that an unaccompanied alien child arriving at our border should be sent home to a parent or family member and not be allowed to stay in the United States. But unfortunately, as a matter of policy, the Biden administration has removed key safeguards for security and even background vetting of many of the sponsors of unaccompanied children at the border. I recall vividly a CODEL that Congressman Biggs led down to the border where we heard from Border Patrol agents about how at times the same children were being used over and over again in these smuggling operations. I know that's not what any of us want, but while our heartstrings may direct us to the thought that we should allow unaccompanied children into the country, We don't have to guess. We know as a matter of history that the consequence of that policy decision is that more unaccompanied children will be sent and that the United States will be deeper into the human smuggling business. I would finally observe that in these cases, if we change the rules, the gangs notice it too. And you'll see MS-13 and Sinaloa cartel as an enterprise work to try to recruit folks in that 14, 15, 16 year old range, 17 years old, because they know that they will be paroled into the country absent these fixes. And that will be the new generation of gang talent. 20 year old Kayla Hamilton was raped and murdered last summer by one of the unaccompanied children who entered the country during the Biden administration and who the secretary lost track of. That unaccompanied child was reportedly a 17 year old MS-13 gang member. In my state of Florida, there are many patriotic Americans who, when they think of unaccompanied children, we recall the Pedro Panflights that brought so many from communist Cuba into the country and where so many Catholic charities were willing to facilitate adoptions throughout our land. But what we see now is very different. We see a highly sophisticated smuggling ring that will respond to the incentives that we build into the law. When we created incentives in the law that so long as you had a kid with you, that was like a fast pass into the country, that was a way to evade detention, that every time you encountered an adult at that border, they were clinging on to a minor child. And those minor children sadly were recycled and abused and tormented, And it was our laws that allowed it. And so I would strongly encourage the adoption of the Roy Amendment, not as a way to spurn our compassion, but as a way to embrace it, as a way to understand that the best place for a child to be is with their parent. And let us not create a pipeline of children into the country with massive strain on our social safety nets, on the systems that we have for American children who are often in need and who often see the services that our government provides diluted by these very incentives and features. I would yield my remaining minute to Mr. Roy, if you had anything to add.
speaker_5: Well, I think the gentleman from Florida was the gentleman from Florida here when I introduced two articles from the New York Times into the record. that outlined the extent to which children are being abused, sold into the human trafficking slavery business into the United States as we speak, and outlining how 85,000 children had been lost. 85,000 children had just simply been lost by the federal government in all of this compassion oozing out of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle. The gentleman aware of that when I introduced that in record?
speaker_12: Yeah, and keenly aware of it. and keenly aware that that doesn't happen by accident. That happens as a direct consequence of the choices we make. And so as we endeavor to move this immigration legislation to the floor, I believe that this is one of the most important amendments that we will vote on, one of the most important features of the bill, because it allows us to ensure that we have children with their parents and not on a treacherous journey that results in abuse and exploitation.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. General lady from Washington is like, I recognize.
speaker_7: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I oppose this amendment, but I am very glad that my Republican colleagues have realized that the bill actually did send all unaccompanied children seeking safety at the border back to Mexico. That's what it did. And your amendment, I think because we had a number of amendments prepared to see if you all really cared about children, as you've been saying you do, I think you adjusted that. Thank you for that. Appreciate that. However, the bill is still unworkable and still cruel and inhumane. And I want to give you one example. In your amendment, you call for the number of detention centers to be reopened, including the Irwin detention center in Georgia. Let me tell you why that detention center was closed. It was actually a resolution that I led in Congress to call for that detention center to be closed because 40 immigrant women had forced non-consensual surgery to sterilize them in that facility by a gynecologist who worked in that facility. It was stunning to see what happened in the Georgia, in the Irwin detention facility in Georgia. And that anybody would call for that facility to be reopened, given the history of that, is remarkable to me. And I just want to read you, this is from a New York Times article, September 29th, 2020, one of the testimonies of the women that was in that detention facility that you are now asking to reopen in this amendment. Wendy Dove was startled awake early one morning in January 2019 when guards called her out of her cellbock in the Irwin County immigration detention center where she had been held for four months. She would be having surgery that day, they said. Still groggy, the 48 year old immigrant from Jamaica who had been living without legal status in the United States before she was picked up. felt a swell of dread coming over her. An outside gynecologist who saw patients in immigration custody told her that the menstrual cramping that she had was caused by large cysts and masses that needed to be removed. She was skeptical, but the doctor insisted, and as a detainee brought to the hospital in handcuffs and shackles, she felt pressured to allow him to take her in. It was only after she was deported and had her medical files reviewed by several other doctors that she realized what had happened to her. This is the facility that you want to open? I'm really, I'm quite stunned by that. But on top of that, you're saying you want to detain families. And we know that detaining families is bad for children. It's bad for families. It has lifelong traumatic consequences. Let me just remind you of what the CDC advises in terms of where kids should be by age five. Kids should be able to count to 10. They should name numbers between one and five when you point to them. They should use words like about time like yesterday, tomorrow, morning, or night. How are they going to learn these in family detention centers? That is an inhumane way to go about anything that we need to do. So I would say that this amendment is extremely misguided. It focuses on putting families in detention. We know that that's not humane and it continues to be completely unworkable. So I urge my colleagues to to reject this amendment and I yield to my colleague Ms. Scanlon.
speaker_15: I couldn't agree with you more about this. I mean, certainly the Irwin County medical abuse was absolutely horrific, was in all of the newspapers, everybody agreed it was outrageous, but we also need to note that the other, all five of the immigration detention centers listed here were closed because of inhumane conditions and abuse of immigrant families, children, people who were detained not for criminal activity, but detained while they were awaiting processing of their asylum applications. They were in line. They were following the rules. And they were detained in places that were subhuman. So that's why these places were closed. And the suggestion that they should be reopened is absolutely inhumane. I yield back to Ms. Gaya Paul.
speaker_7: And I yield back.
speaker_21: Well, he yields back. Gentleman from Arizona, Mr. Biggs is recognized.
speaker_16: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Moose strike the last word.
speaker_21: The gentleman is recognized.
speaker_16: Thank you. I support the Roy amendment here, and I do find it ironic that the exception provision that requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to find alternative housing. If you don't like these detention facilities, we've given authority to the person who I think is maybe the most incompetent, but the Secretary of Homeland Security, the ability to open up additional facilities to get the equivalency with beds. I think Secretary Mayorka should be impeached, but that's just me. But let's just talk about inhumane treatment and cruel. Those are the terms I just heard. You know what's cruel and inhumane is when a cartel that has no consideration of life organizes a party of 21 individuals, including a five-month-old baby and an eight-month-old baby, and sends them up and drops them off in the middle of the heat in southern areas, well, in this instance, northern Mexico, which is just across the border of the ways and says, keep walking north. You're gonna come to a barbed wire fence because that's all that's there. When you get to the other side of it, just sit down and wait for the border patrol agents. They have no idea how long it's going to be. They walk and they walk, young boy, 10 years old, with Harachi sandals is walking in the desert, the dirt. Happens to be rattlesnake season in Arizona and northern Mexico. We're gonna send them out there with the cartel. That's what the, that's the inhumanity. And right now, right now, Chief Modlin, the sector chief for the Tucson sector just issued a warning to all those who are illegally planning or crossing illegally into Arizona. They said, watch out. Watch out. It's over 100 degrees now. The snakes are out. You've got to be careful. And the way they're coming, he said, there's groups of 200, 300, 400 coming. But they spread out. And as they spread out, that's when you have individuals who are left behind who die because of dehydration and the heat. That's inhumane, but you know what drives that? It is the policies of the Biden administration that say if you come in, the group I just saw last Thursday when I was down there, 21 of them, every one of them, we're gonna ask for asylum. Where you from, Chiapas? Really? You need asylum from Chiapas? How about you? Where are you from? Zapotech. What are you gonna do? We're asking for asylum. Really? How about you? Well, I'm from Marita, on the Yucatan. I've been to all those places. I'm telling you. They're coming up, they're asking for asylum, not because they want asylum per se, and because they qualify for asylum, but because this administration has blandished across the world. And the cartels advertise. Come there, when you get up there, who told you to ask for asylum? Well, you know, the coyotes, that we paid 75,000 pesos per person to get here. They said, ask for asylum when you get up there. That's, that's what happens. And it's dangerous and it's driven by this policy. So when I hear terms like cruel and inhumane, I think, well, good grief, come on down with me. I go down all the time. I'll take you down. We'll go see these folks. I'm going to yield now to the gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr. Tiffany.
speaker_17: It's explained inhumane. It was almost two years ago. I was down to the Darien Gap in Panama. What did we see as a result of the pull of migration with the policies that were implemented January 20th of 2021. We heard from villagers in the Darien about babies floating down the Turcasa River. We saw indigenous tribes that their way of life is being destroyed because of the pull of migration going through their communities and their young people are leaving to deal drugs. Let's talk about the Rio Grande and the bodies that lay on the bottom of that river. Talk to the sheriffs in Arizona. Talk about inhumane. when women carry rape kits with them, when they carry birth control with them, because it is likely that they, these mothers and their female daughters will likely be raped so they carry birth control with them. You want to talk about inhumanity? Look at the current immigration policies of this administration enacted on January 20th of 2021 when a pipeline of prosperity in America was shut down and the pipeline from Panama was opened up. I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Generally from Texas is recognized.
speaker_6: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad that we are as a committee talking about the inhumanity that migrants have to face. I don't remember any of my Republican colleagues or having an outcry or making any statements about the inhumanity of the prior administration's family separation policy. When children and babies were ripped out of the arms, literally, of their mothers, and separated. And in fact, there are hundreds of children that have yet yet to be reunited with their families because their families cannot be found because the government did not keep track of those families that were separated. Yes, let's talk about the inhumanity of the horrific journey that migrants have to take and what happens when they are expelled. Let me remind my colleagues that those expulsion policies. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Cicillini. I'd like to remind my colleagues that under the prior administration, those expulsion policies are exactly what helped initiate the cartel involvement in human trafficking. And by the way, if my Republican colleagues would like to begin to tackle the power of the cartels, it begins by addressing the gun situation. 70% of the guns used by cartels are guns coming from the United States of America. They're guns coming from this country moving south and we're effectively arming the cartels. But look, I represent El Paso, Texas. As all of my colleagues know, I'm the only member of Congress who grew up, born, raised, third generation, and represents the US-Mexico border. No one knows better than I do the challenges that come with the refugee crisis, the migration crisis that we are seeing. And no, it did not begin in January of 2020. Every time I hear one of my colleagues claim that this is a result of President Biden, I know how un-serious they are. They are either unsurious or unwilling to look historically at what our country has been dealing with really for more than a decade. But especially since 2014, we have seen a change and an evolution in migration. More and more vulnerable people, more and more families coming to the border. And yes, it's true. Not every one of those migrants qualifies for asylum. I absolutely acknowledge that. But what we have done as a nation is essentially create one line for migrants to get into, just one line. We've basically shut down, curtailed, or greatly limited all other legal pathways. That's on us. That's on Congress. If we were to open up more legal pathways, we could better manage the border. But you heard, we all heard what happened when Mr. Massey tried to create an exemption for veterans. His own colleagues were fighting him on that. His own colleagues did not want a legal pathway for veterans. So let's be very, very clear. We are not going to address this with the bill or this amendment, which would essentially jail every family coming to the border, we're not going to address or solve anything this way. And in fact, I would argue that what the United States has been doing for the last 30 years, we've been doing it the Republican way, which is address immigration as a border-only issue. Well, when you address immigration as a border-only issue, you break the border. Yes, the border is broken, but it's broken because we have absolutely been derelict in our responsibility as members of Congress to open up legal pathways and create better management at our border. We have done it because we, in order to spite migrants, we're willing to basically say we want zero migration. That is fundamentally what is behind this bill. And so I will tell my Republican colleagues, I am absolutely willing, ready, and want to compromise. I want to find a solution. No one more than members of my community want a solution, but it has to be bipartisan, it has to be reasonable, and it cannot be more inhumane. I yield back.
speaker_16: General lady yields who seeks recognition. I do, Mr. Chairman. Gentleman from North Carolina and Mr. Bishop. Just strike the last word. You recognized. I yield to the chair. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I appreciate that. I just have to respond just a couple things that were said that in the last presentation that I found absolutely startling and amusing. I too grew up born and raised in a border congressional district. I too. spent a lot of time in our beautiful state of Mexico, which is to the south. That is just lovely. I love that place. But let's talk about two things. The dramatic and gross narrative, grossly false narrative, that Trump lost thousands of kids. His administration misplaced 3,000 kids, there's no doubt. But you know how many the Biden administration is misplaced? We just had testimony yesterday, 85,000 plus. 85,000 plus. What happened under the Trump administration? They found them, they made them find them. We sat there, we sat in this hearing room, this hearing room. And they came in and gave us regular updates on what they were doing to find and locate those children, reunite them with their families. Golly, I just, I just wonder what we're doing with 85,000. You know what? We got from the secretary yesterday, they're not doing a thing to try and find them. Not doing a thing. And our friends on the other side of the aisle, silence, silence. How about this one? Yeah, you wanna work with the cartels stop the gun trafficking. You know who's been advocating for southbound operations? I have. That's how you stop gun trafficking into Mexico. It's how you stop moving the laundered money into Mexico. You know what we got? We asked for more gun sniffing dogs, more money, cash sniffing dogs. We want them to be southbound operations. You know what they do? They'll do an operation about a week, a week long operation. Last time I heard of one, they found a million dollars cash lining a minivan head in south. A million bucks. But instead of those type of dogs, our administration said, we're gonna get 30, 30 dogs. They are going to be stressed dogs. We're gonna place them in these, these, in the sectors, in the facilities so that when the agents feel stressed, they can go pet a dog. We're not going to give them more personnel. We're not going to give them more operations. We're not going to give them more pay, more security. We're not going to build a fence. We're not going to give them any of that infrastructure. No. Because we're not going to give them that and the morale's bad, we're going to send them a great dog. I think Chappie was the dog, last dog I saw. The one in Tucson is also called Lucy, I think. That's what this administration does. Mr. Bishop, thank you for letting me speak. I yield back to you. I thank you gentlemen. I yield to the gentleman from Alabama and Mr. Moore. Mr. Biggs, I want to address the same issue. I don't know if any of our friends have been to Fort Bliss, but when I was out, we went to Fort Bliss, the emergency intake center for children, unaccompanied minors, over a thousand a day. And they're just taking these kids in and they're throwing them on buses. I actually tried to video the buses shipping the children all around the country and they seized myself on because they did not want the people to know that we were shipping children all over the globe. And I actually asked- No, no, one minute. I actually asked the Admiral on site, I said, Admiral, can you tell me, why do we not send these children back to where they came from? He said, well, sir, we don't know where they came from. I said, but we're gonna ship them to a Google address in America. I said, well, do we do background checks on the people we're sending these children to? And he said, oh, no, we don't do that. So we're loading children on a bus, unaccompanied, shipping them to places to God knows what, to God knows where. We don't do background checks on the adults we're shipping them to. And now we've lost 85,000 children. I tell you this, a closed border is a compassionate border. Mr. Bishop, I'll yield back and then he can make that choice, ma'am. Ms. Garcia, I'll yield to you if you will answer the question, how you are your concern for the 3,000 lost in the Trump administration that were recovered. doesn't, and whether you have the same concern for the 85,000 children lost by the Biden administration?
speaker_6: Well, we've got 20 seconds. I'm not Ms. Garcia, maybe all us Latinas look alike, but I'm Ms. Escobar. I actually represent Fort Bliss. I have been to that intake facility a number of times. My staff goes on a regular basis. I can tell you much of what you have said. I need a little bit more time to debunk, but one of the reasons why they don't let you film children is because we shouldn't be filming children.
speaker_16: Time's expired. Who seeks recognition? Ms. McBeth.
speaker_15: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I move to strike the last word.
speaker_16: General ladies recognized.
speaker_15: Okay, thank you so much. You know, I'm deeply concerned, you know, about the amendment's desire to subject unaccompanied minors to additional screening and require DHS to reopen various detention centers. One, of course, which is in my own backyard in Georgia. And I was really kind of offended by the remarks by my colleague from Florida who says that we should embrace our compassion with this policy. I'm particularly distressed because one of the detention centers This amendment seeks to reopen is Irwin County Detention Center, as I have mentioned, that is in my home state of Georgia. Irwin County Detention Center was specifically shut down because after an 18-month investigation by the Senate, it was found that a gynecologist in the center was performing unnecessary medical procedures on detained migrant women without their consent, and that was expressed before several times. My colleague in the Senate, Chairman, Mr. Chairman John Alsuff stated that, and I quote, it's the bipartisan finding of the subcommittee that female detainees in Georgia were subjected by a DHS contracted doctor to excessive, invasive, and often unnecessary gynaecological surgeries and procedures with repeated failures to obtain informed medical consent, end quote. This year-long plus investigation focused on off-site consultations and treatment that were provided by this gynecologist to women and cataloged hundreds of procedures and surgeries administered by Mr. Amin between 2017 and 2020. So I find it very absurd. to me that the other side would go so out of their way to reopen a detention center that has been so careless with the health and safety of women. And so if we're going to be talking about caring for people, caring for the health and safety of women of Americans, this is definitely not the way to do it. And I would hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would really listen to the calls and the cries of the American people to be treated with fairness and dignity. And I'd like to yield my time to Representative Job Hall.
speaker_7: Thank you, Representative McBath. I just wanted to correct my colleague on, I forget which Republican colleague said this, but Somebody said that there are no background checks for unaccompanied children's sponsors. And that's just not true. So you can go to the Office of Refugee Resettlement. You can look at the federal law that requires sponsors who are adults to provide for the child's physical and mental well-being, have not engaged in any activity that would indicate a potential risk to the child, and must pass a background check. So just want to correct the record on that. I yield back to Ms. McBath.
speaker_15: I yield the balance of my time.
speaker_16: General Lady yields who seeks recognition? Gentleman from California, Mr. McClintock.
speaker_9: Oh, Mr. Chairman, it just seems to me that the answer to the gentlelady's concern over a rogue gynecologist is to fire the gynecologist. All of the health and safety standards and laws are applicable to the facilities that we are discussing. The Democrats are essentially saying there should be no detention. This seems to be their fallback position on so many crimes. And yes, it is a crime to illegally cross the border. But this bill offers alternatives. Most likely, those coming through Mexico are going to choose to await in Mexico or to await in safe third countries where such agreements have been negotiated. As a practical matter, what this is going to do is eliminate the incentives for millions of fraudulent claims that are being made. As long as we offer automatic admission, free goods and services, indefinite residency, indefinite work authorization, we shouldn't be surprised that millions of people are motivated to file fraudulent claims in order to obtain these benefits. If we end the incentives to file fraudulent claims, we end the fraudulent claims. And on that day, The legitimate asylum claims from those who are genuinely persecuted can again be expeditiously decided. The Democrats just argued that anyone who lives in a communist country has a right to migrate to the United States. Well, I would remind them that is 1.5 billion people. The Trump policies ended the incentives for people to come here by the millions because they knew that they would not be admitted. And under Biden, they know that they will be. And that's why they're coming. The record speaks for itself. Since Biden changed the Trump policies and initiated an unprecedented illegal mass migration, 2,000 migrants, many of them children, have died. We have no idea how many hundreds of thousands were raped, assaulted, robbed, or abandoned by the cartels. We have only a rough idea of how many tens of thousands of children have been abandoned to sweatshops, sexual exploitation, and indentured servitude. We know that there's no locating 85,000 of those that we simply dropped off to so-called sponsors. We know that roughly one and three calls made to release migrant kids that their sponsors go unanswered. We know that in the last four years, ORR released 363,000 children to sponsors and yet only conducted 25,000 home studies. That's about 7%. Seven percent is all that we even looked at the conditions we were releasing these kids into. I want to thank Mr. Roy for this amendment that makes crystal clear that every person who wants to claim asylum will be able to do so. but they may not be released into our country until a court says that they have a legal right to be. And I yield to the chairman.
speaker_16: I thank the gentleman for yielding. So let's talk about ORR and the putative background checks they do. We just had the, we had just had the director yesterday in oversight in our subcommittee. There are four categories of background, of groups that they turn children over to. They don't do any DNA checks to see if somebody is related, if they're really related to that individual. They changed the forms under this director. So they got rid of the actual physical address. They got rid of the actual physical address of the location where they're going to deposit this child. That ain't much of a background check. You know what they're checking in CIS, NCIC to see if you've got a criminal history that they can find readily. You don't have to be illegal resident, you don't have to be a citizen. You can be illegally in the country, which means we can't vet you in many, many cases. That, that is the background check for ORR. And I'll yield back to Mr. McClintock.
speaker_10: I just want, I want to be brief, so don't take too much time since next week we're going to have hearings on this issue, but it is actually legitimate issues. I went a number of cadels last year, including bipartisan cadets, and it was brought up. Some concerns for people processing children that they're really background checks are not as good as they should be. I have people in my districts that actually work in agencies that settle the skills. They have concerns. I have people that have concern with child labor at meatpacking plants, which actually control by China on top of it. I think this is a legitimate issue, and we need to make sure that these people and these kids are not going to put in the arms of criminals. And I think this is a very good amendment to make processes better, and they yield back.
speaker_16: Time has expired. Who seeks recognition? Question occurs. On the amendment offered by the gentleman, Mr. Roy, those in favor say yes. Opposed? No.
speaker_2: No.
speaker_16: In the opinion of the chair, the ayes have it, and the amendment is agreed to. Mr. Mr. Kentucky.
speaker_14: I have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_16: Mr. Massey, you recognized.
speaker_14: I thank the chairman. This amendment is very simple. I won't belaborate. The underlying bill for E-Verify creates a legal framework in which- What's to spend?
speaker_21: Clerkable report.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. Massey of Kentucky.
speaker_21: Without objection, the amendments consider is read. The gentleman now from Mutuque is recognized to explain his amendment. Point of board is reserved by the ranking member.
speaker_14: I thank the chairman. This amendment's simple and I'll try not to belabor it. Page 113 lines 4 through 10 of the bill, which is the E-Verify section, provide a remedy for individuals who are dismissed wrongly from a job. I think there's an oversight perhaps in this bill. It's my presumption that E-Verifies to keep you from getting a job if you're not eligible to work in this country. Now, in the event that a U.S. citizen was deprived, their basic fundamental right to work, I think they should still have cause to sue the federal government if the E-Verify system failed them. Now, as I said, the underlying bill provides that if they are dismissed because they've failed and wrongly failed to e-verify background check. But my reading the bill is that they would have no recourse, legal recourse, if they are initially prevented from being hired for the job. So it's very simple. Page 113, line six. insert after would not have been dismissed from a job add this or would have been hired for a job but for an error of the verification mechanism. This is just a safeguard and urge the adoption of this amendment.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Who seeks recognition?
speaker_20: That's right. We do not assist on a point of order.
speaker_21: Point of orders withdrawn. Who seeks recognition? All those in favor of the amendment will say aye. Aye. Opposed. In the opinion, the chair, the ayes have it. Who seeks recognition? Or the amendment is adopted? Who seeks recognition? General lady from Washington is recognized.
speaker_7: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_21: Clerk will report.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Ms. Jaya Paul, page 66.
speaker_21: Reserve a point of order. Considerers read. Point of order from the gentleman from, is reserved by the gentleman from California. The general lady from Washington can, has five minutes to explain her amendment.
speaker_7: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The power to parole people into this country has been used by the executive branch since President Eisenhower's administration. It has been used to parole in Cubans and Haitians during the Mariel Boatlift, as well as for the Filipino World War II veterans and for Hungarians fleeing communism. It is an important humanitarian and foreign policy tool that allows individuals to enter the country more expeditiously in urgent circumstances. This bill, however, decimates the broad parole power traditionally left to the executive branch and it confines it to far narrower terms. Under this bill, humanitarian parole is limited to cases, one, involving serious medical emergencies or organ donation to a family member or where a family member's death is imminent, two, where an individual is a lawful applicant for adjustment of status, and three, involving an individual who is lawfully granted asylum or refugee status. Public interest parole is limited to instances in which an individual assisted the U.S. government in a matter such as a criminal investigation and either the person's presence in the United States is required or the person's life would be threatened if the person was not allowed to enter. Those would literally be the only cases where someone can be paroled under general parole authority. It is an extremely restrictive version of parole, and it would actually preclude the Department of Homeland Security from being able to implement important parole programs that have saved countless lives, like the Uniting for Ukraine or U4U parole program. Following the commencement of Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war of aggression, Ukrainians fled their homeland in droves. Many came to our southwest border seeking shelter in the United States. Understanding the unsustainability of the situation, the Biden administration created a compassionate U4U program, allowing certain Ukrainians on a case-by-case basis to obtain temporary safety in the United States. border encounters of Ukrainians trying to cross illegally fell from an average of 940 per day before the initiative to only around one dozen per day. If the definition of parole under this bill were adopted, these Ukrainians would not have been able to enter the United States. Parole is the most appropriate tool to ensure the safety of this population. Ukrainians who are fleeing from Putin generally are ineligible for asylum because of the narrow grounds for approval. Moreover, the vast majority of Ukrainians are solely seeking a temporary home and wish to return to Ukraine as soon as it is safe for them to do so. Uniting for Ukraine provides them with the temporary protection that they need until they can return home. So my amendment is very simple. It just adds a provision to the parole section of this bill. exempting this particular population from the restrictions. I believe that the restrictions on parole authority are an unnecessary overreach into a power that is traditionally reserved for the executive. But since the majority refuses to meaningfully modify the language, I am hopeful that this very narrow exception to protect Ukrainians who are fleeing Vladimir Putin will be acceptable to the majority. I urge my colleagues to accept my amendment and I yield back.
speaker_20: Will the general lady yield?
speaker_7: I will.
speaker_20: Thank you. I just, it's very timely. I thank the general lady for yielding. We had testimony this morning in the House Foreign Affairs Committee from the special prosecutor in Ukraine, special prosecutor Koston, who spoke about the use of sexual violence, rape and torture of both children and young women and older women war crimes committed by the Russians in this military aggression. And so there are literally men and women, but particularly women and children who are fleeing Ukraine because they are facing unspeakable, horrific war crimes. And he recounted the efforts to collect evidence to be able to prosecute those in an international tribunal as well as under the laws of Ukraine. The idea that we would pass a piece of legislation that would make it impossible for the United States to accept under special circumstances, Ukrainians fleeing war crimes, I think would turn what was once regarded as our leadership in the world on refugee and humanitarian efforts to a really embarrassing position. So I thank you profoundly for your excellent amendment. I urge my colleagues to support it and I yield back.
speaker_7: Thank you, Rep. Cicillini. I think this is a very simple amendment. It should be accepted by the majority. It is absolutely essential that we continue to support Ukrainians in this dire time of need and that we keep the U4U program going. Thank you and I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentlelady yields back. The gentleman from California. Gentleman from California withdraws. His point of order. Gentleman from Wisconsin is recognized.
speaker_17: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chairman. So first of all, anyone from the Ukraine that wants to come to the United States can seek asylum. That's simply what they do is they would seek asylum at anyone else. from around the world to be able to get here. So I oppose this amendment. It defeats the very purpose of the bill. We could sit here for hours and propose specific carve-outs for any number of categories of people, and we've been seeing some of that. But that is not what the parole statute was designed to do. It is not what Congress had in mind when it reformed the statute back in 1996. And it is not what this bill seeks to fix. In fact, this amendment is the same type of categorical program that the Biden administration has been illegally pursuing since day one. The parole statute was not designed to be a grab bag of entry authorization for vast, unlimited categories of people around the world. Just as this bill reflects, it is a narrowly tailored authority that applies only in very limited circumstances. This bill is necessary to prevent open borders administrations from continuing to abuse parole to mass release hundreds of thousands of aliens into the United States. The amendment would chip away at these common sense changes. I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. And I would go on the way back here, Mr. Chairman. What they said way back then when. At the time of its enactment, Congress intended that the parole authority would be used for the temporary admission of individual aliens in the case of an alien whom the Attorney General has paroled into the United States not for any short term. time-limited reason, but instead under circumstances that suggest explicitly or implicitly that the parole will remain in effect indefinitely. Parole status is an unacceptable alternative to a more permanent and defined immigration status. Democrat Representative Bruce Morrison from Kentucky, or excuse me, Connecticut in 1989. You had much the same from Senator Simpson in 1994 from Wyoming. Parole has always meant to be used on a case by case basis. This administration has been abusing this authority left and right. We saw it with Afghans that came over after the disastrous withdrawal when the Biden administration left $85 billion worth of our war making material and 13 of our finest behind in Afghanistan. Those Afghan refugees that came out were almost all paroled and they could have been left in a safe third country like Qatar to be able to have their status be evaluated. That's not what the Biden administration did though. They sent them en masse. And what we're seeing at this point is there's about a million people since the Biden administration came into power that have been offered parole to be able to come into this country. That is not what parole is meant to do. And that is what we are doing with this change here is to make sure parole is being used for the intent that it was originally created for.
speaker_7: Would the gentleman yield?
speaker_17: I yield to the gentleman from Arizona.
speaker_16: I think the gentleman for yielding. So when Secretary Mayorkas came in and testified, you remember he's the one I've mentioned his probably should be removed from his office. But when Secretary Mayorkas came in, and we asked him specifically about parole, he said himself, parole is intended to be a case by case individual by individual program. Prior to the Biden administration, the typical number of folks granted parole in a year was a dozen, maybe 20 at the high. That'd be the high mark. Last year, this administration paroled more than 300,000 people, and they have a program in place to bring in 360,000 parole individuals just from four nations, Nicaragua, Haiti, Cuba, and Venezuela. And that would be added to the additional 300,000 that they planned. So they are planning an additional 600,000 plus parolees this year. And when they come in the, parole, they get documentation so they can work two years and it's, we don't see them again. This, that's what this amendment will do. I oppose the amendment and I'll yield back to the gentleman from Wisconsin.
speaker_17: Yeah, thank you very much. I would just close by saying this. You wonder why we're so critical of Secretary Mayorkas? He broke the law. He's at a minimum, you can say he's violating the intent of the law, but I would say he's breaking the law. Look at the quotes that I just shared with you from representatives from a couple decades ago. He is not following the intent of the law, and that is why we are so critical of him. This closes that. I oppose this amendment and I yield back to the chairman.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. General lady from Texas and then.
speaker_3: Mr. Chairman, I strike the last word as I do so. I'd like to acknowledge my friends, Mr. Chairman, who are in the room from the Texas Farm Bureau. And I'm delighted they're here and hope to be able to speak with them. Raise your hands or let us see you. My goodness, I'm even more excited.
speaker_21: You're welcome.
speaker_3: More excited. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for that courtesy. Let me just take issue with pronouncing that a public servant, the Secretary of Homeland Security, has broken the law. I think there are many things that members of Congress can say about fellow public servants. But if my good friend cannot point to a conviction, let us at least accept that public servants try to do what is right within their framework of their jurisdiction or their philosophy. And since I just met with Secretary Myarchus this morning, I view him as a man of integrity. Having been engaged with Ukrainians in Houston, many of us know that Ukrainians have come to many states and Texas has opened its arms to those fleeing persecution and the chaos of war. Having been to the region and spoken to Ukrainians and as well in meetings and briefings on the chaotic and desperate situation, many of us having viewed little children sitting in streets by their dead moms and dads. elderly persons screaming about where they're going to go and the constant bombing. I suspect this is April and that we will see an increased siege on Kiv and other cities to bring them to their knees. I have met with the Ukrainian delegation that begged us to recognize that their children were being stolen by Russians. Right now, we have a Wall Street Journal reporter as a hostage Paul Whalen as a hostage in Russia. I fought hard for Trevor Reed and Brittany Griner, and they together are fighting for the Wall Street Journal reporter and of course, Paul Whalen. This amendment is a common sense amendment. It indicates that with the procedures that we have, let us be merciful and understand the plight of war. The desperation that these people have who are fighting for democracy, who are using every shred of their common humanity, women and men in the armed forces, using whatever equipment they can secure just to maintain democracy. As I talk to Ukrainians who have come, they want to go home to their beautiful country. They had a beautiful historic land. It was a democratic land. It's the kind of land that we love here in America. We flee as Americans if we ever did out of the chaos of war. Thank God we have not since the Civil War had a war on our soil. And frankly, this is a bill that I don't know what its mission is. I have no idea. I know that farmers across America are looking for workers. They want an agricultural visa. They want a process. There are ways to utilize H-1Bs. Students who are getting PhDs are leaving America because they have no legal way of becoming a citizen. The amendment that I am rising to support provides an opportunity to accept Ukrainians from this harsh structure of parole, the elimination thereof. And it says that a Ukrainian national, the spouse, a common law partner, or unmarried son or daughter on the age of 21 can come in if you're accompanying a Ukrainian national. And that this person was physically present in Ukraine as of February 11th, 2022. So they were in the midst of the war. I was in Lithuania on February 24th, the year that Russia invaded Ukraine, we were there to try and see if the Russians would stand down. We're meeting with the dissidents of Ukraine. We were thinking that we had made an impact as members of Congress, but we did not. But in this amendment, the persons will undergo and pass required national security and public safety vetting. And they will be the beneficiary of an improved form of declaration of support, meaning they're coming to someone to take care of them. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, we can be anything in opposition to a lot. But the one thing America has been known for is the humanitarian it shows to those who are fighting for democracy and fleeing the crush of democracy, which is what Russia is doing to Ukraine. I do not want to put a burden on those individuals who watch their fellow Ukrainians die in the streets. Pregnant hospitals blow up and not allow them by parole, by a legal process, to come into the United States supported by someone who can take care of them until they can take care of themselves. And so I am here asking that we support the amendment. Again, maybe someone to articulate the mission, Mr. Chairman, of the legislation before us, because I believe we should have comprehensive immigration reform legal immigration that can help all. I support the amendment and oppose the opposition to it and the underlying bill. I yield back. Thank you.
speaker_21: The gentlelady yields back. The gentleman from Texas is recognized.
speaker_5: Thank you, Chairman. I oppose this amendment. Parole is designed very specifically to be used on a case-by-case basis for very specific purposes. At the extent that there's a debate and discussion about how to handle our friends in Ukraine, you can do that through the Office of Refugee Resettlement, you can do that through other policies. We've got those policies. We can debate those, but you should not turn parole into what this administration has been turning it into, which is try to make it a categorical mechanism of putting people into the United States. And that's not what parole was designed for, and nor should it be. Furthermore, and with respect to the questions about the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Homeland Security does in fact have a duty to take all actions, determine necessary and appropriate to achieve and maintain operational control over the entire international land and maritime borders of the United States. That's statutory law. It's a requirement of the Secretary. He has not only failed to maintain operational control of the border defined in law as the prevention of all unlawful entries in the United States, including entries by terrorists, other unlawful aliens, instruments of terrorism, narcotics, and other contraband, but his actions have also actively facilitated the loss of it. He's an accomplice to the violation of our laws and national sovereignty by virtue of every action he has taken to empower cartels and to allow the complete decimation of our border. These laws established by Congress and ordered by the courts are being ignored to achieve a specific desired outcome not supported by the law, establishing a wide open border to issue legal status to as many illegal migrants as possible. To accomplish this objective, he has refused to spend Congressional appropriated dollars. He has disobeyed our immigration and border security laws. He has failed to prosecute cases as the law requires. He has violated court orders to carry out his duty to secure our borders. He has actively misled the American people in Congress and working to disclose the extent of the border crisis. He terminated construction of the border wall despite congressional appropriation requiring him to do so. He caused CBP to become dangerously overwhelmed and unable to execute its statutory duties by failing to utilize readily available legal tools to avert the border crisis. He lied about border patrol, accusing them of race-motivated whipping, which did not occur. He knew it didn't occur. He had a memo that said it didn't occur, and yet he said it anyway at the microphone. He released migrants, ignoring his duty in the law into the interior of the United States. He refused purposely to enforce interior immigration laws and removal requirements. He's lied to the American people repeatedly into Congress and saying the southern border was, quote, closed. He has conducted himself recklessly when willful blindness and empowering criminal drug cartels. He has impaired the health of Americans with communicable diseases and lethal drugs. He has damaged the United States economic health, wasting the harder money of taxpayers, allowed illegal migrants to destroy private property throughout South Texas and beyond and along the southern border. He has placed American citizens at imminent risk of physical harm. I could continue. But to say that the Secretary of Homeland Security has neglected his duty under the Constitution and failed to uphold his oath to defend the laws of the United States would be a dramatic understatement to say the lead. The gentleman yield. I would not at this point because what the Secretary has done repeatedly and overwhelmingly has been to ignore the laws of the United States that he is required to carry out in order to defend the United States border as is required as the Secretary of Homeland Security. It's literally his job, as what is he is supposed to do. And in the process, I would note, in addition to endangering Americans as I just laid out, fentanyl crisis and other things we've discussed here, he has endangered the very migrants he says that he has been seeking to protect. By his very actions, he has endangered those migrants, resulting in, as we've talked about, a thousand deaths along the border, resulting in scores more deaths, hundreds more deaths in the interior, resulting in the empowerment of cartels along our border. These are all facts. that are irrefutable. We can debate, I suppose, the exact causes, but I believe it is a direct result of the actions of the Secretary of Homeland Security. And I think that merits debate in a future hearing in this body. I yield back to the chairman.
speaker_21: The gentleman from California is recognized, oh, excuse me, I'm sorry. This gentleman from California, and we'll get you next. Mr. Cray is recognized.
speaker_13: Thank you, Chairman. First, I want to yield a minute of my time to my colleague from Washington.
speaker_7: Thank you so much, Mr. Correa. I just wanted to go back to Mr. Tiffany's assertion that Ukrainians can simply seek asylum. It's just not true. There are a lot of things being said that aren't true, and I think it's important that we correct to that. So if you are, you could try to, you could try to be a refugee, you could go to the UNHCR, you could try to seek from the UNHCR approval to be a refugee. and then you don't necessarily know what country you're gonna get placed in. In order to seek asylum, you actually have to be here at the border to seek asylum. And by virtue of having, in order to be eligible for asylum, It's not enough just to be fleeing a war. And I think a war of conflict is not sufficient to be able to seek asylum. So you actually have to be able to prove that you were selected for persecution or that you fear future persecution by a government or forces beyond the government's control. or that you have been or will be targeted by the five protected grounds, your race, your religion, your nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. Now, of course, this bill seeks to eliminate all of that anyway, so it would be very difficult to seek asylum under this bill because it eliminates all of that. But I just think it's very important that we don't, that we go back to the content of this amendment, which is to ensure that Ukrainians who are fleeing the war in Ukraine and Vladimir Putin are able to be paroled in. That has been a compassionate response of the United States to the Ukrainian people, and this amendment seeks to protect that very narrow protection for Ukrainians. I yield back to my colleague.
speaker_13: Thank you. Just wanted to mention that I'm probably the only member of Congress that actually went to visit the Ukrainian refugee camps about a year ago. And what I found was a model of how you deal with the refugee situation. I walked into a camp set up by the Mexican government in Tijuana, Mexico, essentially took a baseball field and set up camps, tents, brought in doctors, brought in food, and brought in a whole process where families, not just individuals, but whole families were actually being processed on a case-by-case basis. They were granted parole. They were then taken on a bus to the border. Title 42 was lifted. Pedestrian crossing west that had been closed because of COVID was open for them and they walked right across the border. Today, if you go to Tijuana, Mexico, that refugee camp is non-existent because today Ukrainians can fly directly from Europe to the United States under parole. If you were looking for somebody to do the right thing, which is what Secretary Mayorka has done in dealing with the refugees, look at the Ukrainian model. And today, today in my district, and I think in many other districts, you have vibrant Ukrainian communities springing up, being productive members of our society, and probably waiting for the right time to return to their home. Parole, Article Title 42, figure it out. Let's do the right thing to make sure that Refugees are respected in a humane manner. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I yield.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back. The gentleman from California is recognized Mr. McClint talk for five minutes.
speaker_9: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would remind my Democratic colleagues this bill is perspective only. It doesn't affect populations already admitted into this country. So the Ukrainians already admitted are not affected by this bill. The general lady from Washington is absolutely correct. Asylum is set aside only for those who are being persecuted by their government for specific reasons. The Democrats have been arguing the opposite all afternoon, and I'm glad the general lady from Washington has decided to set them right. Asylum is not for those fleeing communism. It's not for those fleeing violence or poverty. It's not for those fleeing a war. That's not applicable to our asylum laws. In those circumstances, fleeing a war, they're refugees and they're very different processes for that category. Asylum is for the persecuted. And what this bill means is that those seeking asylum because of persecution in the future will have their cases heard expeditiously because they won't have to wait for years while millions of fraudulent or inapplicable claims are clogging our courts. Parole is an individual executive function that is done on a case-by-case basis. Categorical parole isn't parole at all. That's a change of the law itself. And the law in our country doesn't reside in the sovereign's mouth. In 1952, Congress created the parole authority for the president for emergencies, like someone who needed to enter the country for an urgent surgery where there's no time to go through the normal channels. In 1996, because this process was being abused, Congress made it very clear that this is an individual case-by-case power only. The law says specifically parole is to be used only on a, quote, case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons of significant public benefit, end quote. This administration has been granting categorical parole not on a case-by-case basis, but to entire classes of individuals numbering in the tens of thousands. This bill simply forbids parole based on an entire class of potential parole recipients. That function is the sole prerogative of Congress, and with this measure, Congress takes that power back. If you want to modify the immigration law to exempt entire classes of immigrants, well, by God, this is the place to do it. You've been trying to do it all day to day. This is the right place. This is where categorical exemptions are supposed to be considered. They are not supposed to be imposed by the whim of the executive. I yield back. Oh, I yield to Mr. Van Drew.
speaker_18: Thank you. I'm only going to take a few minutes. First of all, I just want to say that Congressman Chip Roy is dead on. What you just said about Mayorkas is exactly right and it's going to save me a lot of time. But I do think it's embarrassing. Just speaking to the other side, if you listen to him in hearings, he doesn't tell the truth. If you listen to him in hearings, he never gives a direct answer. If you listen to him in hearings, He's not willing to take the responsibility for all the problems that he has caused. He has been a terrible secretary. He has let down the American people. He's let down the United States Congress. He has let down everybody in what he does. And again, we've said it before some people. He should resign or he should be impeached, but he shouldn't be there because his presence alone has taken us more than one step back. Secondly, parole. there's a right way to do it. This bill, the bill that we want to do, does it the right way. And if we did things the right way, not the illegal way, but the right way, there would be less problems, there'd be more compassion, and actually everything would work for those that really need the help they should get. It is the same with asylum. The reasons that we're concerned about asylum is not because we're against true asylum, the reason that we're concerned with it is because that's not what we're doing. We're using it as a tool just to let anybody in. We're not doing it the right way. We're breaking the rule of law over and over and over again. And again, because of that, you can't have the compassionate response that you would want with asylum because people now identify it with something else. And you know it's great that Mexico had everything set up so well and I'm proud to see Mexico doing that because they certainly could help us out. And by the way, Mexico has real borders. Mexico has borders. Almost every country in the world has borders. But somehow we don't. It's just a matter of doing things by the rule of law and doing them right way. Nobody's against all these issues. We're against what we're doing with them and what Mayorkas is doing them. And at the end of the way, at the end of it all, kids are being used for child labor. We have sex slavery. We have people that should be on the terror watch list that don't get out. It's the wrong thing. I know. I'm sorry. I'm aggravated. I'm on a roll. I'm aggravated, Chairman.
speaker_21: I understand. I understand. The gentleman yields back. Gentleman from California yields. Yep. The gentleman from New York has recognized the ranking member.
speaker_20: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, over 100,000 Ukrainians fleeing Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war of aggression have found temporary safety in the United States thanks to the existing United for Ukraine program. If the definition of parole under this bill were to be adopted, these Ukrainians would not have been able to enter the United States. Ukrainians fleeing from Putin generally are ineligible for asylum because of the narrow grounds for approval. And that's okay. The vast majority of Ukrainians are seeking only a temporary home and wish to return to Ukraine once it is safe to do so. The U4U program provides them with a temporary protection they need until they can return home. This amendment is simple. It adds a provision to the parole section of this bill exempting this population from the restrictions and enabling the U4U program to continue. Well, I believe that there is so that they don't have to be sent back to Ukraine. Well, right now. Well, I believe that the restrictions on parole authority are an unnecessary overreach into a power traditionally reserved for the executive. Since the majority refuses to meaningfully modify the language, I'm hopeful that this narrow exception to protect the Ukrainians who have fled from Vladimir Putin's war and who are here now will be acceptable to them. I urge my colleagues to accept the amendment and I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Gentleman from Wisconsin. Mr. Herald is recognized.
speaker_9: I would yield to the gentleman from Texas. Gentleman from Texas.
speaker_5: I thank the gentleman for yielding. I would only note that the gentlelady from Washington makes our case, makes our case very specifically with respect to how asylum has been continued, continually abused to allow people to get released into the United States. The gentlelady went through with precision trying to make the case, I believe in good faith, that there are Ukrainians that would be on the outside looking in to a tightly defined asylum criteria, asylum criteria, which is designed very specifically in our statutes to apply to individuals who seek relief because of credible fear of persecution for their religious beliefs or political beliefs primarily. And so the gentlelady laid that out fairly well and then said, therefore, We need to do something for Ukrainians. Let me put aside for the moment the do something for Ukrainians piece of the argument. I don't believe parole is the right vehicle for doing that. But we can debate that. I don't believe you should make categorical exceptions for a policy that is designed very specifically to be case by case. Deal somebody who's sick, needs a liver transplant, whatever it might be, which is literally what parole was put in place to do. So we could go do that. We could have a debate about what do we do about our friends in Ukraine. But I think the gentlelady made a very strong case for why we need legislative correction to the abuses by the current executive, the president, allowing that very specific definition of asylum to be turned on its head to say, a claim of asylum means you're released into the United States and invites a flood to the border. I would note that the ranking member of- With the gentleman. I will in a minute, if I could finish, let me make my point, I'll be happy to. The ranking member earlier I don't remember at what point, but very early in our proceeding today, use the phrase, enforcement without reforms is a non-starter. Well, I understand why the gentleman might want that. The gentleman wants to have some other policies. It could be amnesty, it could be something to do with DACA, it could be something to do with future flow, some debates that we've had repeatedly in various forms over the last, you know, numerous years. It kind of gives away the whole point. Just like literally listen to the sentence. Enforcement, enforcement of the law. That's the next phrase, enforcement of the law, enforcement of our laws at the border, enforcement of our border. Without reforms is a non-starter. See, we view it through the lens, I believe, I'll speak from my, but I view it through the lens of we're supposed to enforce the law. And everything we're doing is trying to hold the executive branch accountable to the laws passed by this body, put into law, enacted, then appropriated, and then blatantly disregarded and ignored by the executive branch.
speaker_20: The gentleman yield them?
speaker_5: Well, I think the gentlelady asked for me to yield first, so I will defer to the gentlelady and then to the ranking member.
speaker_7: Thank you so much. I just wanted to be clear that we are debating parole right now. That's what the amendment is about. So I'm saying that Ukrainians are a group that should be allowed to continue parole, number one. Number two, on asylum, we, I don't, I don't see how I've made your case at all because my belief is that the current asylum system requires that we allow people who are seeking asylum to go through the process to show that they either do or don't have credible fear. of persecution. That requires a period of time. People, when they come in, don't have all the documents, as you know, because you do know this issue. You know that the majority of people are pro se. Unfortunately, we treat immigrants like they're criminals, but we don't give them what we give people in the criminal justice system. They don't have attorneys. They're allowed to get one if they can afford one, but they need to have time to process that. So there's nothing in what I'm saying that validates your...
speaker_5: Reclaiming my time's of about 40 seconds left, which might means I may not have time for the ranking member. But to respond there, the point about asylum, what we're saying is, of course, if you have a credible fear of persecution, we want to be able to hear that claim, but you have to adjudicate that claim. What you cannot do is what we do, which is released people basically saying, oh, you come here, you walk around, and we know it. There's signs literally put on trees at the Rio Grande that says, a silo, arrow. and then people go and then they say, a silo. And then, boom, you've got a flood of humanity, and then those individuals are then give a notice to appear or totally unlawfully a notice to report that is totally ignored, and then only a fraction show up or a percentage show up, that's debatable, we can hold hearings to get, you know, the recent data, but you, those, they don't show up and they're released, so you're causing more flood. I'm just making the point that the gentlelady, made the case that the definition of asylum is in fact narrow. That's the point.
speaker_7: We've always said that. We've always said that, but we believe people should be able to prove that they have that time.
speaker_21: General lady from Texas is recognized.
speaker_20: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The gentle lady yield.
speaker_6: I will yield.
speaker_20: I thank the gentle lady. I'm going to be very brief. The quote you gave for me about enforcement without reform is, It's not started, it's quite correct. But that was talking about the whole bill, and I'm not going to debate that right now. We're talking about this specific amendment. This amendment would allow an existing program under which Ukrainians, most, the vast majority of whom do not seek asylum, so asylum is not in question, to be paroled into this country until it is safe for them to go back. Under the terms of this bill, without the amendment, we'd have to send them all back immediately, back to Putin's tender mercies. All this amendment does is to add a, I don't agree with the bill in getting rid of a lot of the parole authority anyway, but all this amendment does is say that with respect to the Ukrainian parole authority that has already been exercised, it can continue being exercised so we don't have to send all these people back to Ukraine now. And if there are any people there who want asylum, they can apply for asylum under the normal provisions. This is nothing to do with that.
speaker_5: The gentlelady give me five seconds to respond to him?
speaker_6: No, I need my time. If I have time, I will yield to you, Mr. Roy. There's just a couple things, of course. There's a couple of things I want to point out, and it just, I point this out because I want my colleagues to understand, there's a lot more to understand about immigration and migration than what we are talking about here. And I totally get why many of you are unfamiliar with what we deal with on the border. It's a lot. And immigration is super complex. One of my colleagues just said, you know, Mexico has its borders and basically monitors its borders. You clearly have no understanding of what's happening in our hemisphere. We are seeing an unprecedented migration through the entire hemisphere. And Mexico is not able to control its own southern border right now because of the numbers. And in fact, Costa Rica as an example, they have seen record numbers as well. So this idea that this is only a US issue really demonstrates a lack of awareness of what's happening in the hemisphere. Furthermore, the use of parole is not new by this administration. And in fact, the prior administration, the Trump administration, used parole. Why? Because of the large numbers. Because there was no more room in detention. How do I know that? We lived it in El Paso. We would, our shelters would receive migrants paroled by the Trump administration. So again, I mentioned this because the challenge that we face is so much greater than the very myopic view that is being expressed on this committee by the majority. This idea that one president is to blame or one one policy is to blame or one DHS secretary is to blame, completely ignores the reality that we have been facing for a decade, which is this historic refugee crisis throughout the hemisphere. And so how do we fix it? How do we do it? We don't do it this way in a very partisan way that seeks to do more of the same. We do it by sitting down together, looking at legal pathways. Where is it advantageous to us as Americans to have more legal migration, to have a better managed border? That doesn't get you all clicks on Twitter. That doesn't help you all fundraise, but it would help us address the issue, which is what my border community would like, which is what my Democratic colleagues and I would like. And Mr. Roy, you have the remaining 30 seconds. I'm happy to yield to you.
speaker_5: Well, I appreciate it. I don't even know if I'll use it all. Just say to the ranking member that where we disagree is, is the use of parole is designed to be on a case-by-case basis. If we're going to have a solution with respect to Ukraine, if a solution is needed, and we have a solution with respect to Ukraine, I think it ought to be specific to that with respect to refugee law and how we deal with refugee resettlement and other mechanisms. I do not believe that's what parole was designed to do. Again, I think it's a case-by-case authority, and that's my disagreement, and I yield back to the gentlelady or yield back.
speaker_6: I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentlelady from Pennsylvania is recognized Ms. Scanlon.
speaker_15: Amendment at the desk?
speaker_21: Wait, wait, wait, no, we're. Yeah, we're still on in there.
speaker_15: Why am I recognized?
speaker_21: Question occurs on the amendment. Offered by the gentlelady from Washington. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed nay. Nay. In the opinion of the chairs, the nays have it. Roll call being asked for. The clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan. No. Mr. Jordan votes no. Mr. Issa. Mr. Buck. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana. Mr. Biggs. Mr. Biggs votes no. Mr. McClintock. Mr. McClintock votes no. Mr. Tiffany. No. Mr. Tiffany votes no. Mr. Massey. No. Mr. Massey votes no. Mr. Roy. Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishop votes no. Ms. Sparks. Mr. Fitzgerald. Mr. Fitzgerald votes no. Mr. Bentz. Mr. Benson votes. No. Mr. Klein. Mr. Klein votes, no, Mr. Gooden. Mr. Van Drew?
speaker_9: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Van Drew votes no. Mr. Nell's?
speaker_9: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Nell's votes no. Mr. Moore votes no. Mr. Moore votes no. Mr. Kiley votes no. Ms. Hageman. No. Mr. Haleigh votes no. Mr. Mists no. Mr. Haley? No. Mr. Frye votes no. Mr. Nodler? Aye. Mr. Nalor votes. I. Ms. Loughgren? Ms. Lofgren votes aye. Ms. Jackson Lee. In the name of democracy, in the law of democracy, I vote. Mr. Cohen. Mr. Johnson of Georgia. Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes. Aye. Mr. Schiff. Mr. I, Mr. Schiff votes. I. Mr. Cicillini. Mr. Swallow. Mr. Mr. Liu. Mr. Liu votes. I. Mr. Jiapa. Mr. Mr. Craya. Mr. Craya, votes. I. Ms. Canylon. Aye. Mr. Canyl votes. I. Mr. Ngoose. Ms. McBath? Ms. McBath, votes aye. Ms. Dean. Ms. Escobar? Ms. Escobar, votes aye. Ms. Ross. Ms. Bush. Mr. Ivy? Aye. Mr. Ivy, votes aye. Mr. Issa, you are not recorded? Mr. Issa votes no. Ms. Sparts, you are not recorded. Ms. Sparts, no.
speaker_21: All members voted. Gentlemen.
speaker_0: Mr. Johnson, Louisiana, you are not recorded. Mr. Johnson, Louisiana votes now.
speaker_21: Gentleman from Texas. Mr. Gooden.
speaker_4: Mr. Gooden votes no.
speaker_0: Mr. Gooden votes now.
speaker_21: Clerk will report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chair, there are 12 eyes and 22 knows.
speaker_21: The amendment is not agreed to. Gentleman from Kentucky is recognized.
speaker_14: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_21: Clerk will report. Gentleman from New York reserves.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment and the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. Massey of Kentucky.
speaker_21: Without objection, the amendment will be considered. As read, excuse me, the gentleman from Kentucky is recognized to speak on his amendment.
speaker_14: I thank the chairman. My amendment is to the e-verify portion of this immigration bill in front of us. To summarize, it says no federal benefit may be made available to an alien whose authorization to be employed has not been confirmed under the verification system established under section. 274 AD of the Immigration Nationality Act. In other words, what my amendment says is that if you're gonna receive, is the chamber in order? If you're gonna receive welfare benefits, then you have to go through E-Verify. Why would we want to make it harder to get a job than it is to get welfare? Seems pretty simple to me. Now, I've been told today that e-ferrify is instant, accurate. It's a great method of determining eligibility for work that accesses existing federal databases. Well, why not use that for federal benefits? I'll tell you what I'm concerned about. When COVID struck, we sent out $1,200 checks. Thousands of these went to foreign nationals who are not even in this country. The federal government said, well, are bad. We couldn't really figure out who should get these checks and who shouldn't. Well, now I'm told there's a database to determine all this. So I let people know I knew somebody personally in Norway who got this check, $1,200 check. And so I blew the whistle on it. I got fact checked. Instead of saying I was wrong, NPR did an expose on it. Because this guy in Norway got the $600 check that came a few months later. Were we able to determine almost a year later who was eligible? No, a year later, he gets a $1,400 check. Doesn't live in this country, hasn't lived in this country, does not, for 40 years, does not have a green card. But he received, let's add that up, 1200, 600, that's 1800 plus 1,400, $3,200 to a rich Norwegian. Because our federal government couldn't determine if he was eligible or not. Oh, sorry, we'll just put the money in the cannon and shoot it out. And if you've ever paid into Social Security or something, we'll just give you money. So if we do have a system that's instant and accurate method of determining eligibility for work, why don't we use it for federal benefits? Sounds pretty simple to me. Why should we make it harder to get a job than it is to receive welfare or some kind of stimulus check? I just want people to know today that is watching this, this E-Verify system isn't gonna be used to stop people from getting welfare checks that shouldn't be getting welfare checks, from stopping rich Norwegians who are not living in the United States, haven't lived here for 40 or 50 years, from getting their checks, but it should, if we were serious about E-Verify, we would use it for that very reason. Now, now that I made my point, Here in a second, I'm going to withdraw my amendment for two very sad reasons. The first is I think I'm going to lose Democrat support. And I don't want to push my luck. They've been so charitable with their votes on my amendments. I think I probably extended the limits of their charitability. So, and I might not get all of my Republican patriots on this side, although I feel like a lot of them agree with me. That sounds like I'm getting a lot. Maybe I won't withdraw it. But the main reason I have to withdraw it is in spite of my best effort, the best efforts of my staff, I'm told that it is not crafted in a way that's germane to the underlying bill. That I'm going outside of the scope of this bill a little bit.
speaker_21: Just a little.
speaker_14: So in that spirit, and having made my point.
speaker_9: Will the gentleman yield?
speaker_14: I would...
speaker_9: If I made things, first of all, you put in that bill, I'll be happy to co-sponsor. I think you'll have a huge number of co-sponsoring it. And number two, I am so glad that you are acknowledging now that the e-verify system is workable and necessary.
speaker_14: Reclaiming my time. I said that it was claimed that it was instant accurate method of determining. I somewhat doubt the claims of government and some of my colleagues occasionally. But I appreciate the spirit of the co-sponsorship, but it's not germane. I'm told by the parliamentarian, so I will withdraw, I will ask unanimous consent to withdraw my amendment.
speaker_21: Without objection. We appreciate the gentleman. We appreciate his amendment. He is accurate that it is not germane. And we look forward to that bill being introduced separately, who seeks recognition. Gentleman from Wisconsin. Gentle, for what purpose of the gentleman from Wisconsin?
speaker_17: Mr. Chairman, I am not worthy to sit between these two intellects, Representative Massey and Representative McClintock, I depart.
speaker_21: Gentlemen from Texas, excuse me, California, of course, will be recognized as soon as he's ready. Gentlemen may proceed.
speaker_13: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't be taken up my time allotted. This is a very simple but important amendment.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman, I would reserve a point of order.
speaker_13: I have amendment at the desk.
speaker_21: Gentleman from California reserves a point of order. The clerk will report the amendment.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. Correa, page 16.
speaker_21: Not objection, the amendment will be considered as read. The gentleman is now recognized for, a gentleman from Texas recognized for California, keep doing that, is recognized.
speaker_13: One of the two. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Very simple but important amendment, I'll be brief. What it does is it codifies the military parole program that currently exists and was used by President Trump. Our current military parole program is available to undocumented service members, veterans, and their families. My amendment again would just codify this existing program. Current bill language is presented today would gut the underlying parole authority that has allowed us to protect American military readiness and has advanced a significant public benefit of honoring our American armed forces and their families who have made many, many sacrifices. This bill also, this proposed bill will also eliminate the military family's parole policy itself that Congress enacted in the bipartisan fiscal year 2020. And very briefly, Mr. Chair, if I may read from the bill itself, It says the Secretary of Homeland Security may grant parole to an alien who has applied for admission to United States, who is a member of the armed services on active duty, or is a veteran that has not been dishonorably discharged, applicable to a spouse, widow, or family. Mr. Chair, that is my amendment. I ask for support.
speaker_21: Yields back. Does gentleman from California insist on his point of order? Point of order is withdrawn. Gentleman from Wisconsin is recognized Mr. Tiffany.
speaker_17: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I mean, the answer is real simple here. There's already an exception in here for the military. We have that in here for military personnel. And so we've covered who needs to be covered. and this exception is contained in here. In fact, we talked about this extensively, and we chose to include this in this bill. It's in there, Mr. Chairman, and I urge everyone to oppose this amendment because it's already covered in the bill.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Question occur.
speaker_20: Mr. Chairman? Oh.
speaker_21: I think so. Okay. Gentlelady from California is recognized to speak on the amendment.
speaker_2: I don't believe that, although I'm sure that he speaks with all sincerity, but I would ask Mr. Tiffany, I don't see the exception that he's referred to. Could you tell me what page and what line it's on?
speaker_1: It does not include any religious services.
speaker_20: It doesn't include reserves. It doesn't include parents.
speaker_17: Section B. This is generally a lady yield?
speaker_2: Yes, I would love the answer. Yeah.
speaker_17: So if you look at, I'm on page 65 here, Section B, Secretary of Homeland Security may grant parole to any alien who is the spouse or child of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty.
speaker_2: Correct, but the amendment, if I'm reclaiming my time, military parole in place should include the spouses, parents, and sons and daughters of the not only active members of the US Armed Forces, but individuals serving in the Select Reserve and the veterans. I'll tell you, the parents issue is one that means a great deal to me because the first time I became aware of the use of parole in this general issue area. was a case out of California, not my district. But the American citizen had joined the US Armed Forces and had died in Iraq. And his mother was undocumented. And she was going to be deported, even though her son had been killed in the service of the United States. And the issue she raised to us in California, she would not even be able to visit his grave. She was granted parole. And I'll say that under both Republican and Democratic presidents, parole has been used in such circumstances. I think that's appropriate. And I think that the gentleman from California's amendment is an important one and covers gaps in the bill. And I would urge its support. And I don't know if Mr. Correa would like additional time. I would be happy to yield additional time. But certainly the bill has a big gap here and would not fully honor our commitment to the families of those who serve. And I'll just give a note. I mean, there's been a lot of discussion that we never give category exemptions, all case by case, but in fact, There are a number of categorical exemptions that are listed in the bill on page 65 and the like. So I just wanted to note that the categories that are being objected to must be on the substance because certainly there are categorical exemptions that are in the underlying bill itself. And I would yield to Mr. Correa.
speaker_13: Thank you, Ms. Lofkin. I just wanted to bring this back to what we're talking about. We're talking about veterans honorably discharged, service members, their families, and really a public policy here that incentivizes good behavior, namely rewarding our military service volunteers. We're in all volunteers Army today. And to think that some of these individuals who are undocumented are serving or their families are undocumented and we say to them as a matter of public policy, you don't deserve to be in this country. I think that's the wrong message. So again, this is what America's about, honoring those that have served for us, that have sacrificed for us. And as Ms. Lofgren's example shows, some that have made the ultimate sacrifice. We need to make sure we take care of these folks as well. Thank you, Ms. Lofgren. I yield back to you.
speaker_2: Thank you, and I yield back.
speaker_21: General Lady, it's back. The gentleman from Gentleman from Wisconsin is recognized.
speaker_17: May I be recognized again?
speaker_20: Oh, excuse me.
speaker_21: The gentleman from California, Mr. McClintock is recognized.
speaker_9: I yield to the gentleman, Mr. Tiffany.
speaker_17: Yeah, thank you very much. And I take your amendment that it's done with all sincerity, Mr. Korea, but we cover those service members. Those service members that you're referring to that should be covered because of their service to our country who may make the ultimate sacrifice, we've included them in here along with their spouse and their children. Part of the problem that we run into is we've seen, we're seeing now with parole, we're seeing it with the other pieces of immigration legislation is that this administration can't be trusted. If it's not my time, but hang on. Um, this administration can't be trusted. I mean, parole is supposed to be used on a case by case basis. And that's not what this administration is doing. I think it's upwards of a million, million people that have come in via parole here in the last two years. We have a border patrol that is saying that the secretary of the department of Homeland Security is lying to you, the American people. That's not us. It is. the border patrol itself that is saying he is lying to you about the border being secured. So as a result of this, we have to make sure that we're very specific about who we're going to allow into our country because of that lack of trust that has happened as a result of the actions of this administration. But make no doubt about it, no doubt about it. If you are a service member, You are covered as well as your spouse and your children under our legislation. I yield to the gentleman from California.
speaker_9: And I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentlemen from California, Mr. McClintock controls the time.
speaker_9: And I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentleman yields back. Gentleman from Rhode Island, Mr. Cicillian.
speaker_20: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rise in strong support of the amendment and thank Mr. Curia for submitting it. Let me just be clear, my response to Mr. Tiffany's assertion that he's inaccurate. There is a big difference. The current military parole, the one that's in place today, provides parole eligibility to foreign nationals who came to the United States without authorization and who are also the immediate relatives of U.S. military service members and veterans. So you have military pull in place available to spouses, parents, and sons and daughters of active duty members of the US Armed Forces, individuals in the reserves, and veterans who have served in the US Armed Forces or Reserves. The new provision in this bill that Mr. Tiffany was speaking about, the parole option is significantly limited. It is only for spouses and minor children of active military service members. So no veterans of the armed forces, no veterans of the reserves. And so it significantly narrows people who are eligible for parole. Mr. Crayas' amendment restores it back to the original place it's been, which by the way, was an initiative, I believe, of the Trump administration, where 20,000 applications were approved. Now, I know somebody on the other side of the aisle, maybe DeSantis people, and you may be trying to, you know, you know, show some disfavor of the old administration, but this is a good program. We ought to be absolutely certain that anyone who has served this country, either an active duty on reserves, either as a veteran or are currently serving, is eligible for parole. And you're taking a system which reaches all of those categories and you're narrowing it very significantly. You're excluding veterans, those who have completed their service, either active duty or reservists. Those men and women who have served our country and risk their lives in doing so are entitled to eligibility under this parole system. So I urge to support the amendment.
speaker_2: I yield the balance of my time to I thank the gentleman for yielding. Here's the thing about parole. It does allow the executive on a case-by-case basis to make a humanitarian decision. Now, the fact is that there's a guideline for armed services that has been used by both Democratic and Republican presidents, but it doesn't preclude a president from making a finding that there is a humanitarian reason to grant parole. If you take a look at page 65, line 11, the spouse or child of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty. Well, in the case, and it's a real case that I mentioned earlier, the serviceman was not serving on active duty. He was dead. And he died while in the military. He died in Iraq. His mother received humanitarian parole in So, I mean, this would not permit that. And even the guidelines that are used are not aimed at that, but it allows a president to find a situation where common decency requires some action, and in this case, parole. So this is a restriction beyond what current practices are, but also would preclude the kind of situation I mentioned earlier. I think it's ill-advised. And I think the gentleman for yielding, and he has departed, so I will yield back.
speaker_21: General Lady yields back. The chair now recognizes the gentlelady from Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee.
speaker_3: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I move to strike the last word. And let me thank Mr. Korea for thinking about the expanded family members. People would wonder why we're in the midst of this discussion because the devil is in the details. There's nothing more severe.
speaker_21: Committee would be in order.
speaker_3: The gentleman. There's nothing more confusing than those of us who are emerged in immigration constituents. than to try and interpret laws that by their very nature are intended to preclude, but are represented to be fixing the immigration system. So here we are with families and others. I think I heard Ms. Laufferin indicate a mother who had been able to be statused through a person in the military. So I just want to be very brief and indicate that the limitations that my friends are putting on is really creating havoc in what I thought was an underlying position that we all viewed as important. And that is the position of family unification, family status. There's nothing that would indicate that a mother of a soldier is going to be dangerous or an extended family member is going to be dangerous or that there is not a need to include those extended family members to be able to have parole. And if someone has put on the uniform, again, I say, unselfishly with the willingness to die in this, in the fight for this nation, to bleed for the fight of this nation, I don't like these restraints. We didn't have them when we were in the midst of Iraq and Afghanistan. And families were able, sometimes in their grief, were able to not be deported out of this country. We never know when war will call our door. And we know that we will send all of those in uniform and we will not stop them as they load up on a C-130 or something else, whether they are fully status, but more importantly, the status of their family members. And if we are able to, in the midst of crisis or need for families to be reunited, to use the parole system, which I disagree, the administration has not abused it, there are reasons and a basis for the utilization, I would argue that this amendment needs to be put in place to ensure that extended family members that are really closer than I mentioned, but include the spouse, widower, parent, son, or daughter is really a very reasonable amendment. And to me, an active duty, I cannot imagine that we would declare an active duty members of their family not to be allowed to be in. anything dealing with the military who are well vetted, which the amendment does provide for under our scheme of immigration process and who's applied for a mission, I frankly believe this is a good amendment from a gentleman from California. And I'd ask my colleagues in a bipartisan manner and a recognition of the importance of the men and women serving unselfishly voluntarily in our United States military. I can't imagine why you would vote against this. I simply just can't imagine. So I asked my colleagues to vote for this amendment and to respect men and women of the United States military, whether they are individuals with family members that are unstated or not and allow them the opportunity to status those family members by parole. I yield back.
speaker_21: Gentleman, our General A yields back gentleman from Virginia is recognized.
speaker_9: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Move to strike last word.
speaker_21: Gentlemen, recognize.
speaker_9: I support our men and women in our armed forces, and I want to make sure that this bill grants them the opportunity to take advantage of the provisions of the bill. I would yield to the gentleman from Arizona for a question. It's my understanding that the amendment in the nature of substitute, actually maybe it should be the gentleman from California. The amendment in nature of substitute grants soldiers who are in this circumstance wishing to request asylum to apply for this parole on a case-by-case basis and does not in any way hinder their ability to do that. Is that my understanding?
speaker_16: If that's your understanding, it is the correct understanding.
speaker_9: Okay. Well, I appreciate that.
speaker_16: Mr. McClintock would like to expand.
speaker_9: I would yield to the gentleman from California. Well, again, as I understand it, there's an expedited pathway for non-citizens who've joined the military to obtain legal residency, a path to citizenship, for them and their families. The works. This bill doesn't affect that in any way. The case that the gentlelady from California mentioned, a mother seeking to attend a son's funeral, well, that is exactly the kind of case-by-case evaluation that we're trying to protect. This is an individual who needs to enter the country for humanitarian purpose, and there's such urgency to it they don't have the time to go through the normal channels. That's a legitimate use of parole authority, and once again, is not affected by this bill.
speaker_2: Would the gentleman yield, in the case I mentioned she was living in California? All right.
speaker_9: I thank the gentleman. I thank the General A. I think this is, the substitute covers this issue and asylum parole requests should be on a case-by-case basis, not by blanket categorization. So I would urge opposition to the amendment I yield them.
speaker_21: The question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California. All those in favor say aye.
nan: Aye.
speaker_21: All those opposed, nay.
speaker_20: No.
speaker_21: Roll call being requested, the clerk will call the roll.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan.
speaker_21: No.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan votes no. Mr. Issa. Mr. Buck. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no. Mr. Biggs. Mr. Biggs votes no. Mr. McClintock. Mr. McClintock votes no. Mr. Tiffany? No. Mr. Tiffany votes no. Mr. Massey? No. Mr. Massey votes no. No. Mr. Roy votes no. Mr. Mr. Roy votes no. Mr. Mr. Bates. Mr. Mr. Bonds? Mr. Cline votes no. Mr. Giddon. Mr. Gooden votes no. Mr. Van Drew. Mr. Van Drew votes no. Mr. Nells. Mr. Moore. Mr. Moore votes no. Mr. Kylie. Ms. Hageman. Ms. Hageman votes no. Mr. Moran. Mr. Moran votes no. Mr. Hunt. Mr. Frye. Mr. Nadler? Aye. Mr. Nadler votes. Aye. Ms. Loughgren? Ms. Lofgren votes aye. Ms. Jackson Lee? Aye. Ms. Jackson Lee votes. Aye. Mr. Cohen. Mr. Johnson of Georgia? Mr. Johnson of Georgia, votes. Aye. Mr. Schiff? Mr. Schiff? Aye. Mr. Sissolini? Aye. Mr. Sissolini votes. Mr. Spallwell? Mr. Liu? Aye. Mr. Lou votes. I. Ms. Jaiapal. Mr. Correa? Mr. Correa votes. I. Ms. Scanlan. Ms. Ghanlon votes. Aye. Mr. Neguse. Ms. McBath? Ms. McBath? Aye. Ms. McBath? Aye. Ms. Eskabar? Ms. Ross? Ms. Bush? Mr. Ivy?
speaker_21: Gentlemen from California?
speaker_0: Mr. Issa, votes no.
speaker_21: Gentleman from Florida?
speaker_0: Mr. Gates votes no.
speaker_21: Any member wishing to vote who hasn't? Clerk will report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chairman, there are 10 eyes and 19 knows.
speaker_21: The amendment is not adopted. Gentleman, gentleman from California is recognized.
speaker_4: Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_21: Clerk will report.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman, I reserve a point of order.
speaker_21: Point of order, reserved.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. Schiff of California.
speaker_21: The memo will be considered as read. The gentleman is recognized to explain his amendment.
speaker_4: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Throughout the markup today, men of my Republican colleagues have raised the issue of the fentanyl crisis. I share the deep concern over the proliferation of this. deadly drug. It is taking a terrible toll on cities and towns all across America. The ready availability, the cost of this drug, the deadliness of the drug make it a terrible scourge that we ought to bring all of our efforts to bear to attack. And I believe that most of the members of this committee would agree that the fentanyl crisis has ravaged communities throughout the nation. But instead of putting forward policies that would actually help turn the tide of this epidemic, my colleagues instead seek to place blame for the fentanyl crisis on immigrants and asylum seekers. There's nothing in the bill put forward by my Republican colleagues that would actually protect American lives from these overdose deaths. Republicans continue to ignore the fact that the vast majority of fentanyl seizures over 90% of them are happening at ports of entry into the United States. If we are serious about attacking it and so many of you have spoken out on fentanyl in connection with this bill, there's a good way to do it. And that is to attack where 90% of this is coming into the country. Not only is demonizing asylum seekers, fear mongering, and xenophobic, but is also incredibly counterproductive when we consider the real source of this dangerous drug. We need to work together to address the root causes of fentanyl trafficking, and that requires putting forward legislation based on the reality that most of this that is coming into the country is coming through ports of entry, not between ports of entry. That's why I'm offering an amendment today that would provide $50 million over five years to expand the use of technology. non-intrusive inspection technology at U.S. ports of entry. This desperately needed funding will help better detect and stop fentanyl and other illicit drugs from entering the United States. I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. Certainly listening to my colleagues during the course of a discussion of this bill, you would think this bill is all about fentanyl. Well, if it's all about fentanyl, then we should do something in the bill to actually address this crisis. So I urge my colleagues to support $50 million to help interdict fentanyl at ports of entry and urge my colleagues to support this amendment. And with that, I yield back.
speaker_21: The gentleman yields back. Mr. Gentleman yields back. Mr. California insists on this point of order.
speaker_9: I do, Mr. Chairman.
speaker_21: The gentleman is recognized.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman, the gentleman's amendment, as much as I like it, would introduce material beyond the scope and purpose of the bill before us. It therefore violates House Rule 16 Clause 7. I yield back.
speaker_21: Is the sponsor the amendment wish to be heard on the point of order? Yeah. The gentleman is recognized. The gentleman from California is recognized.
speaker_4: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes. So I'm rather astounded to hear my colleagues say that the issue of fentanyl is Not germane to this bill. If this bill isn't about in any way, shape, or form dealing with the fentanyl crisis, then what have you been talking about? Why have you continued so many of you to raise fentanyl? You would think that this was the sole focus of this bill. And now you're telling me that an amendment actually dealing squarely with fentanyl is not in order. What is that all about? Why all the comments about fentanyl? in connection with this bill. And now you're saying Fendil has nothing to do with this bill. I can't reconcile that. So here's the choice you have. Because listen, whether it's germane or not, you know you support a great many things that are not technically germane when you agree with the policy. Well, do you agree with the policy of investing 50 million to attack the problem of fentanyl or do you not? That's the question before you.
speaker_21: The chair is prepared to rule that is not the case that the amendment deals with inspection technology at ports. As much as we like the amendment, as the sponsor of the legislation indicated, this is something that has to be handling the Homeland Security. committee, therefore the gentleman's amendment does not satisfy the subject matter and the fundamental purpose test. Therefore, it is not germane and out of order.
speaker_20: I don't understand why it's not a germane amendment to the immigration nationality and naturalization act.
speaker_21: Just to explain that the amendment's not in order.
speaker_3: Who seeks recognition? The gentleman yield? I seek recognition.
speaker_20: I protest the point. I appeal to ruling the chair.
speaker_3: Has he ruled?
speaker_16: Mr. Chairman, I moved the table.
speaker_21: The appeal of the ruling the chair has been made. It's been a motion made to table. The motion. The motion, uh, that the clerk will call the roll in the motion to table.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan.
speaker_21: Yes.
speaker_0: Mr. Jordan votes yes. Mr. Issa. Yes. Mr. Issa votes. Mr. Buck. Mr. Gates. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana. Mr. Biggs. Mr. Biggs votes yes. Mr. McClintock. Aye. Mr. McClintock votes aye. Mr. Tiffany votes aye. Mr. Massey. Yes. Mr. Massey votes yes. Mr. Roy. Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishop votes yes. Ms. Sparts. Yes. Mr. Fitzgerald votes aye. Mr. Mr. Bens. Mr. Bens votes. Mr. Mr. Cline. Mr. Gooden. Mr. Goodham votes aye. Mr. Van Drew. Yes. Mr. Van Drew votes, yes. Mr. Niles. Mr. Moore. Yes. Mr. Moore votes. Mr. Kylie. Ms. Hageman. Yes. Ms. Haganman votes. Yes. Mr. Moran. Yes. Mr. Moran votes. Yes. Mr. Lee votes. Yes. Mr. Hunt. Mr. Frye. Mr. Nadler votes no. Ms. Loughgren. Ms. Loughgram votes no. Ms. Jackson Lee. Mr. Jackson Lee votes no. Mr. Cohen. Mr. Johnson of Georgia? Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes no. Mr. Schiff? No. Mr. Schiff votes no. Mr. Cicillini. Mr. Swalwell. Mr. Lou. Mr. Lou votes no. Mr. Sirepaul. Mr. Mr. Correa votes no. Ms. Scanlan votes no. Mr. Negoose. Ms. McBath. Ms. McBath votes no. Ms. Dean votes no. Ms. Escobar. Ms. Escobar votes no. Ms. Bush. Mr. Ivy. Mr. Ivy votes no. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, you are not recorded. Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes yes.
speaker_21: Clerk report.
speaker_0: Mr. Chair, there are 17 eyes and 12 nos.
speaker_21: Amendment is not adopted. Who seeks recognition? The motion. Oh, that's right. That's right. Motion at tables is agreed to. Excuse me. Who seeks recognition. The gentleman from Georgia is recognized.
speaker_5: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an amendment at the desk.
speaker_9: Mr. Chairman, I reserve a point of order.
speaker_21: From California reserves, point of order. The clerk will read the amendment.
speaker_0: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. Johnson of Georgia.
speaker_21: And it will be considered as read. The gentleman from Georgia is recognized to explain.
speaker_5: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment strikes the provision prohibiting government funds from being used to provide counsel for unaccompanied children and replaces it with the requirement that the government appoint or provide counsel to unaccompanied children. This amendment just makes sense, Mr. Chairman. We do not allow children to represent themselves in other legal proceedings. And immigration court should be no different. In these cases, the government is represented by a lawyer. How can we expect kids without lawyers? to assess their own eligibility for humanitarian relief? How can we expect kids to prepare their own cases? And how can we expect kids to advocate for themselves adequately during an adversarial hearing? We should not expect children to act like adults. And it's absurd to require them to represent themselves in a complex legal proceeding. The data bears this out. Common sense bears it out. Unaccompanied children without counsel are almost 100 times less likely to obtain legal relief than unaccompanied children with counsel. Plus, providing representation leads to an orderly judicial process which is sorely needed in our backlogged immigration courts. 98% of children with attorneys appeared for their court date.
nan: There has been a longstanding bipartisan support for efforts to provide counsel to unaccompanied children, including in the Homeland Security Act of 2022 and the Victims Protection Act of 2008.
nan: This is because Congress has realized for years that legal representation is absolutely essential
nan: to ensure that children have meaningful access to asylum and other protections.
nan: And for those reasons, Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues on this committee on both sides of the aisle to support this amendment.
nan: And with that, I will yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Gentleman from California, does insist on this point of order?
nan: No, I withdraw.
nan: Gentleman does not.
nan: Gentleman from Arizona is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I oppose the amendment offered by the gentleman from Georgia.
nan: And I find myself thinking of this interesting, not meant to be flippant yet, very real world application.
nan: Who does the gentleman think placed that unaccompanied minor in the hands of the inhumane, vicious, dangerous coyotes and cartel, and the human smugglers?
nan: Was it their parent?
nan: Yeah, most likely.
nan: Yeah, most likely.
nan: You know, you're asking at a time when the border is overrun.
nan: And we hear from the Homeland Security Secretary that the border is secure.
nan: But this surge of unaccompanied children is overwhelming
nan: our border.
nan: This isn't the first time this happened though.
nan: You know, under the Obama administration, the total number of UACs apprehended that the border was nearly a quarter of a million.
nan: Nearly a quarter of a million.
nan: And the reality is we will continue to see more.
nan: During the fiscal year 2022, CBP encountered 152,000 UACs.
nan: The gentleman is asking us to have an uncalculable number of lawyers representing UACs.
nan: That's the, see, the number of 2022 is the most in a single year and more than a 400% increase over the last full fiscal year of the Trump administration when there were only 33,000 UACs.
nan: Well, when we look at this, and we look at
nan: what happens in these immigration proceedings.
nan: Section 292 of the INA states in any removal proceeding before an immigration judge in any appeal proceeding before the attorney general from any such removal proceedings, the person concerned shall have the privilege of being represented at no expense to the government by such counsel.
nan: Now here what's happening is if you're an unaccompanied child, you're gonna be placed into the hands of the Office of Refugee and Resettlement.
nan: That's what's going to happen.
nan: And you're going to be placed and released to somebody who's claiming to be responsible for you.
nan: And oddly enough, ORR has lost contact with more than 85,000 of those underage children.
nan: Would the gentleman yield for a question?
nan: No, I won't.
nan: They've lost contact with more than 85,000
nan: underage unaccompanied children.
nan: Think about that.
nan: You know what?
nan: Taxpayers are footing the bill and we can't even keep track of them.
nan: When, at what point would we insert the attorney to represent this child?
nan: Yeah, and who's gonna pick the attorney?
nan: And who's going to supervise the attorney?
nan: I mean, this becomes just an actually impossible idea.
nan: American taxpayers are already shouldering the burden of funding expenses incurred by the government during immigration removal proceedings.
nan: But more than that, we are already incurring billions of dollars to care for unaccompanied children.
nan: who are given special and unique right and care.
nan: That's what's happening.
nan: And so I think the amendment belies the reality of the situation.
nan: It shows an incredible, as I've said this before, I don't want to sound like my colleague across the aisle, but it shows some kind of vacuity with regard to this subject.
nan: And so I'm going to have to oppose this and encourage my colleagues to vote now as well.
nan: Now yield back to the chairman.
nan: The gentleman yields back.
nan: The gentleman from New York is recognized.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I rise in favor of the amendment.
nan: Regardless of the expenses and regardless of the numbers, these are the same arguments that were made against providing legal counsel to criminal defendants at the time of Gideon versus Wainwright in 1963.
nan: Mr. Johnson's points out quite correctly that when you have a legal proceeding,
nan: and you have a legal right to a lawyer, the general rule in this country is that if you cannot afford a lawyer, a lawyer will be provided for you.
nan: Now certainly when you're talking about deportations, children cannot represent themselves.
nan: It's bad enough that adults may not have counsel, but adults at least can understand presumably some of what's going on and can
nan: answer questions from the judge like, why are you here and how did you get here and so forth.
nan: A child cannot.
nan: A child cannot understand the import of the judge's questions.
nan: The child may even be young enough so he doesn't understand the judge's question.
nan: So whatever the expense is, it's the American tradition that people placed in jeopardy of any kind, whether of life or a limb,
nan: or imprisonment or deportation or whatever are entitled to counsel provided by the taxpayer if they cannot do it for themselves.
nan: Any opposition to this amendment is opposition to that fundamental American principle.
nan: So I support the amendment and I cannot understand an argument against it.
nan: I'd like to hear why aside from costs, why we wouldn't
nan: give children the benefit of counsel.
nan: That's a fundamental American principle.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Who seeks recognition?
nan: Mr. Chairman?
nan: Gentleman from California is recognized.
nan: Was that me or?
nan: Well, thank you.
nan: Mr. Chairman, it seems to me we have a singular responsibility to unaccompanied children who show up at our border.
nan: Take them safely home.
nan: One of the cruel ironies of this issue is that the TVPRA, that is the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act, which was supposed to reduce child trafficking, actually has dramatically increased the trafficking of children.
nan: Just as you can't judge a book by its cover, you can't judge a bill by its title.
nan: When the TVPRA passed in 2008, we encountered 8,000 non-Mexican unaccompanied minors on our border.
nan: In 2022, you know how many we've encountered?
nan: 149,000.
nan: That is an 18-fold increase in non-Mexican, unaccompanied minors in the 14 years that this so-called anti-trafficking bill has been in effect.
nan: Why is it?
nan: Well, because we promised amnesty to unaccompanied children through DACA.
nan: And under this administration, we've assured that unaccompanied children are immediately trafficked by our own government.
nan: the so-called sponsors or self-declared family members, many of whom are in the country illegally themselves, with no effort whatsoever to return them safely to their homes.
nan: Now, there's nothing in this bill that prevents an unaccompanied child from having counsel.
nan: There is nothing in this bill that prevents an NGO or a pro bono law firm from offering counsel.
nan: It simply says our responsibility
nan: is not to pay those bills.
nan: Our responsibility is to get them safely home as quickly as we can.
nan: And that is the most humane thing that we can do.
nan: The gentleman you- Instead, what we're watching from the Democrats is massive trafficking of these children.
nan: You know, when a child shows up at your doorstep,
nan: You try to get them safely home.
nan: You don't take them down the street to the sweatshop or worse.
nan: That's what our government is doing under your administration with your cheering them on.
nan: I do not understand that.
nan: Perhaps the gentleman from New York can explain that to me.
nan: Well, I'm not here to defend the administration or to talk about that.
nan: Well, you're defending the status quo.
nan: I am here to say with respect to what you were just talking about.
nan: With all due respect, everything, every position that your, your, uh, members have taken is to protect the status quo, which is appalling.
nan: That may be, but I'm not, I don't, I don't, fine, I'm not talking about that.
nan: It is our responsibility, as you quite correctly say,
nan: to get these kids safely home, except for these kids who have a legitimate right to asylum here.
nan: And they cannot assert that right without an attorney.
nan: Isn't that the responsibility of their parents?
nan: No, we're talking about, we're talking about unaccompanied children.
nan: My time.
nan: Do the Democrats no longer recognize the right of parents?
nan: Any more?
nan: Can I answer you?
nan: We're talking about unaccompanied children.
nan: There's no parent in the picture.
nan: So most of those kids may not deserve asylum, may not want asylum, may in fact go home or should go home.
nan: But some are entitled to asylum, and to assert that, they need a counsel.
nan: And there's nothing in the bill that prevents them from getting a council.
nan: All this says is that taxpayers aren't going to pay for it.
nan: Our resource are going to be used to get them home.
nan: Now, I realize that the Democratic woke left is completely re-engineering basic biology from the ground up.
nan: But I'll guarantee you there is a mother and a father that are responsible for that child someplace.
nan: That child came from someplace.
nan: It's our responsibility to get them safely home.
nan: Would the gentleman yield?
nan: Sure.
nan: Okay.
nan: So let's say hypothetically they do have a mother and a father someplace.
nan: If that someplace is not the court where that child happens to be, it's not particularly helpful at the moment.
nan: And to say that, you know, they can have an attorney if they want one, well, everybody wants one.
nan: The question is whether one will actually be provided.
nan: And we know that because as the ranking member stated,
nan: These issues have been addressed for the past 60 years in the United States.
nan: Again, reclaiming my time, here's what I'm afraid is happening and why our friends are taking the position they are.
nan: The median time to complete a UAC case is about 1,200 days.
nan: That is nearly four years.
nan: Unaccompanied children then are waiting for four years to get their hearing.
nan: This backlog is getting worse daily.
nan: Our job is to get them home, and I yield back.
nan: Mr. Chairman yields back.
nan: Who seeks recognition?
nan: Chair recognizes the gentlelady from California, Mrs. Lofgren.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: We strayed a little bit afield from what this amendment actually proposes to do, and I think it's a very sensible one.
nan: I recall the late Don McEacham, who had a bill that I was working on with him, to provide counsel to young children
nan: And it was paid for by increased fees in the immigration system.
nan: That would likely not be germane in this case.
nan: So it's not included in the amendment.
nan: But I think the amendment is a solid one.
nan: You know, there's a famous case several years ago where a child under five was in court in removal proceedings.
nan: And the immigration judge was saying, well, do you understand your rights?
nan: I mean, this kid had a teddy bear.
nan: Obviously the child did not understand his rights.
nan: He was in no position to really understand what was going on or to seek counsel for that matter.
nan: And to think that that meets our standards of due process, I really think is absurd.
nan: So, you know, we don't like to spend money any more than you do, but I'll note that there's an estimated
nan: 18 million criminal cases each year, and each one of those is represented by counsel.
nan: Those are people charged with a crime.
nan: The five-year-old is not charged with anything.
nan: As a matter of fact, they may not know why they're even there.
nan: And to say that each one of these children has a parent somewhere, you know, when I've gone to the border talking to some of the people entering, I've encountered aunts and grandmas.
nan: who are taking small children because their parents have been murdered in Central America.
nan: So it's not always the case that there is a parent able to take that child.
nan: But that's really not the thrust of the amendment.
nan: The thrust of the amendment is really about due process.
nan: And I commend the gentleman from Georgia for offering and I would yield to him my time.
nan: I thank the general lady for yielding.
nan: I think of the two-year-old or three-year-old, unaccompanied child at the border.
nan: Teddy bear in one hand, sucking their thumb, just a child.
nan: And I think of that symbol and what it should mean to people
nan: around the world, regardless of language, regardless of creed or color, a child traumatized on a journey.
nan: Put in the hands of a coyote, as my colleague, the chair just talked about.
nan: I wonder, he said, who puts them in the hands of a coyote.
nan: But the fact is, they get into the hands of a coyote, and they have to make a journey
nan: of hundreds of miles to the United States border.
nan: And the trauma that that little thumb-sucking child went through to get to the border should mean something to every American.
nan: And to expect that little child at that vulnerable moment
nan: to be able to represent themselves, not even knowing the language, is not a sensible proposition.
nan: It may be a matter of the heart that you would extend to that child some degree of humanity in your own heart to help them at a critical moment.
nan: Regaining my time, if I may, if you take a look at page 62, I mean, this isn't only people who are seeking asylum.
nan: There's no age limit on the overstay provisions.
nan: So theoretically, you could have a one-year-old who's violated the provision on line 11 of page 62 and would be in proceedings.
nan: How are they going to even know what's happened?
nan: I mean, some are these are pre-verbal children in some cases, and yet there is a requirement that they be proceeded against that is not limited by age or by a knowledge requirement in the proposed provision.
nan: The gentlelady yield for a question?
nan: Well, it's not my time.
nan: Oh, yes, it is my time.
nan: I was going to say it was yours.
nan: Unfortunately, I no longer have time to yield.
nan: Thank you.
nan: The gentlelady's time has expired.
nan: Who seeks recognition?
nan: The gentle lady from Wyoming, Ms.
nan: Hagman.
nan: I believe that you are recognized.
nan: Thank you.
nan: I believe that the Democrats, my colleagues on the other side, have finally acknowledged the horrors.
nan: and the inhumanity of the Biden and Mayorkas border policies.
nan: describing a two or three-year-old child arriving unaccompanied without an adult at the border because of a coyote who has brought that child there and then demanding that the taxpayers of America provide that child with legal representation.
nan: I don't know that there could be any epitome of the brokenness of this system than to listen to what we just did for the last five minutes of
nan: stating that this administration has created policies and implemented policies that has resulted in this dystopian and horrifying situation and is doing nothing to prevent it from happening.
nan: And when the folks on my side of the aisle, when the Republicans come forward with a border policy that would prevent those kinds of things from happening, your response is, all it is is money.
nan: All we need to do is spend more money to provide these abandoned children with legal services.
nan: I don't think that there is any better description than what I just heard as to why it is so important that we move forward with this border policy and this this border policy and immigration reform package that we have put together.
nan: With that, I yield back.
nan: The gentlelady is yielded back who seeks recognition.
nan: I see the gentleman from Rhode Island, Mr. Cicillian.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I'm moved to strike the last word.
nan: You are recognized.
nan: You know, I've sat through this hearing since it began.
nan: I haven't heard anyone who doesn't acknowledge that our immigration system is broken.
nan: Sadly, what is proposed in this bill makes the system worse and it's not an improvement.
nan: I think there has been,
nan: example after example of thoughtful, even bipartisan proposals, often led by Ms.
nan: Lofgren and Ms.
nan: Jaya Paul, to actually repair our broken immigration system.
nan: This bill, for all the reasons we have already articulated, makes the situation worse.
nan: But let's get back to the amendment.
nan: The amendment is a simple proposition.
nan: We all recognize that immigration proceedings will often implicate important rights.
nan: important liberties.
nan: It is a bedrock of our system of due process in this country that people should have some understanding of the decisions they make and the impact it's going to have on
nan: their own freedom, their own liberty, their own future ability to remain in a place, or whether or not they're detained in a facility.
nan: And the idea that it's controversial that children who come here and are involved in an immigration proceeding ought not be represented so they understand what's happening, that somehow we should punish the kids
nan: because of their presence in immigration proceeding.
nan: I mean, it's un-American.
nan: We're the envy of the world because we have the rule of law, we have a court system, we have a constitution, we have rights that are protected.
nan: And to say, your punishment, three, five, and six-year-old, your punishment for being found in the United States or being in some immigration proceeding is you're gonna have to figure it out.
nan: You're not going to have a right to a lawyer.
nan: You're just going to, whatever happens happens.
nan: This is America.
nan: That's how we roll.
nan: And it's astonishing.
nan: It's astonishing.
nan: This is the Judiciary Committee.
nan: If we can't agree at a bare minimum that people go through legal proceedings in this country have some understanding of what is happening in their lives, what they're giving up, what they're waiving, what results in their detention, what results in their release, what obligations they have, if we can't agree that children ought to be guided in that process by qualified legal counsel, I don't know.
nan: I don't know, it's a sad, sad day to me.
nan: I thank Mr. Johnson for offering this amendment.
nan: I'm proud to say, I recognize the value of legal counsel, particularly for children.
nan: We're so often the standard in our legal system is the best interest of the child.
nan: That's often guided by arguments of legal counsel.
nan: And we have a special responsibility to children in this country.
nan: Whatever their immigration status is, they're children.
nan: And we ought to do everything we can to protect their rights and their freedoms and make sure that they're not making decisions or decisions aren't being made for them that will negatively impact their lives.
nan: Have we really gotten to a place where we want to say to a three or four or five year old, when you show up in immigration proceedings in America, have at it.
nan: We're not going to give you any legal counsel.
nan: You figure it out and you suffer the council.
nan: I certainly hope not.
nan: Because that's not who we are as a country.
nan: And I'm happy to yield the balance of my time to Mr. Johnson if he needs it.
nan: If not, I yield back.
nan: The gentleman yields who seeks recognition.
nan: Mr. Klein from Virginia.
nan: I take it then that you supported the Born Alive Act that was introduced earlier this year in describing the need to protect children, young children.
nan: I think the Born Alive Act has anything to do with young children.
nan: Okay.
nan: I yield back.
nan: The gentleman yields to me.
nan: Thank you.
nan: So I just wanted to clarify a couple things that I thought were interesting.
nan: I thought the argument was clever referring to page 62 line 11, visa overstay.
nan: When you start talking about a visa overstay for an infant child.
nan: And again, you're talking about two, three, four, five year olds.
nan: That's been the thrust, I get it.
nan: Or 10 or 11 year olds.
nan: Fine.
nan: Typically, in virtually every situation, if you have a visa overstay of a child, guess what?
nan: What you have is you have someone that is with that child because that's how they got the visa.
nan: That's how they got the visa.
nan: They're with somebody.
nan: You got a visa overstay, that technically is a crime.
nan: They're gonna get a lawyer.
nan: So that's why I thought that was an interesting argument.
nan: Didn't make sense to me, but interesting.
nan: Hold on, you can hold on just one second, Mr. Nettler, I'll get with you in one sec.
nan: Then the other thing is, when we start talking about the way the process works, I find myself again saying,
nan: The process seems to work this way, at least my observation of the process, which seems a little bit different from your understanding the process and me.
nan: I'm not saying I'm 100% right.
nan: I'm just saying that my participation, my seeing of this up close is that it kind of goes like this.
nan: When an unaccompanied child comes in, just saw some the other day.
nan: When they come in,
nan: They are taken to the detention center just like everybody else, but they're put into a different category.
nan: And you have caretakers now.
nan: You actually, and this is, I'm not saying this a bad thing, I'm saying this is a good thing.
nan: You have caretakers that are designed and are there to attend to them.
nan: Then they're referred to Office of Refugee and Resettlement, who will then attempt to place them.
nan: Now, I've actually seen kids with something sewn onto their sleeve
nan: something pinned to them, an address, a phone number, something.
nan: They'll try to work with that and see what they can find.
nan: They are doing their best to treat these kids with respect for their rights and treat them like their residents of a foster system.
nan: And that's what happens there.
nan: I'm going to yield back to Mr. Klein.
nan: Gentleman, yield, Mr. Yield, Mr. Klein.
nan: Just very briefly,
nan: I wanted to give my friend, Mr. Cicillini, an opportunity to correct what he just said a moment ago.
nan: I hope that was a mistake.
nan: You were asked about the Born Alive Infant Protection Act.
nan: You said that does not involve a child.
nan: You probably misspoke.
nan: Ms.
nan: Spoke at all.
nan: That is part of an effort by the Republican Party to enact a national abortion ban.
nan: I think you've been very clear about that.
nan: I do not support it.
nan: I think women in this country ought to make decisions about their own reproductive care.
nan: And I don't believe that legislation that prohibits them from doing so is appropriate.
nan: I understand your position on abortion, but that bill just to clarify.
nan: With the gentleman.
nan: Not yet, no.
nan: No, that bill.
nan: That's a different bill.
nan: You're talking about a bill that had to do with hospital treatment.
nan: Mr. Johnson has the floor.
nan: Mr. Johnson has the floor.
nan: Not the original bill that most Democrats voted for.
nan: The bill.
nan: The gentleman yield on that bill to give the bill that we voted on on January 11th of this year.
nan: That's right.
nan: Was to give babies who are born alive during a botched abortion the same basic medical care that has provided to any other infant?
nan: That is the bill.
nan: We were talking about, I will not yield, I'm having a colloquy with Mr. Sislini.
nan: I'm giving him an opportunity to correct.
nan: You're incorrect in your characterization.
nan: There were specific provisions in that bill.
nan: All right.
nan: All right.
nan: In fact, I was going to give you an opportunity because I'm afraid that the, you didn't even give an opportunity to correct.
nan: I have the time, but thank you.
nan: The clip of what you said a moment ago, I predict, is going to be a viral one and it will live on forever.
nan: And you said,
nan: that that does not involve a child.
nan: And I just want to clarify, the language is very specific, the legislation is very clear.
nan: I know all the Democrats voted against that bill, but I just- Would the gentleman yield this to why?
nan: I can't believe what I was just told.
nan: I yield back to Mr. Klein.
nan: Mr. Klein.
nan: He doesn't actually want an answer, Mr. Nadler.
nan: Mr. Klein, that's the time.
nan: The bill most definitely did have to do with a child because I'm all too familiar with Mr. Natalie, you ought to order.
nan: I am all too familiar with this, the circumstances.
nan: that contributed to this bill because it was Virginia's last governor who said that when a child is born, they would make the child comfortable, then they would have a conversation with the mother about what to do and implying that they would decide whether to let the child die on the table or make every effort to help resuscitate it.
nan: And that's what the born alive bill that we considered was intended to accomplish was to ensure that that child had every chance at life and will continue to fight for life.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Gentlemen, yields, who seeks recognition?
nan: I think it's Ms.
nan: Scanlan.
nan: Oh.
nan: Move to strike the last word.
nan: With the gentlelady yield.
nan: The gentlelady is recognized.
nan: Certainly, Mr. Adler.
nan: Thank you.
nan: I want to set the record straight on the born alive bill.
nan: Born alive bill, first of all, was unnecessary because it describes murder in every state.
nan: But it was passed by this Congress in 2002, and I voted for it, and every Democrat voted for it.
nan: In fact, I think it was passed unanimously.
nan: The bill that we had this year said that if as a result of a botched abortion, a baby was born alive, it had to be taken care of, quite proper,
nan: And it had to be rushed to the hospital.
nan: The reason we voted against it is that in many cases, it is medically contraindicated to rush the baby to the hospital.
nan: We said they, you should give it the standard of care that the doctors on the scene say is most likely to help that baby.
nan: Like Kermit Gossel, for example.
nan: rushing to the hospital may not be the way to do it.
nan: I thank the gentleman.
nan: I yield back to him.
nan: With the gentle lady.
nan: No, thank you.
nan: I just wanted to speak to the amendment that's actually under consideration here that would provide representation to unaccompanied minors here in this country.
nan: As, as several people have noted, what's been described as the dystopian and horrifying situation that we have where children are coming to this country or being brought to this country,
nan: because the situation in their home countries is so horrific.
nan: That's been building for decades.
nan: And I've represented those children in my legal career since well before this administration, representing kids who were orphans and who'd fled gang activity and abuse in their home countries and starvation.
nan: So we've heard a lot today about how this bill is supposed to protect children
nan: But the opposition to an amendment that would actually protect children shows just how hollow that alleged concern is.
nan: If indeed our concern is to protect children who've been the victims of trafficking or who've been separated from parents or who don't have any parents, then we should help them to make the case if they're eligible to stay in this country, if they have relatives they should be placed with.
nan: But simply,
nan: returning them to parents who don't exist or just shoving them back out of the country only makes them more vulnerable to the very kinds of abuse that our colleagues across the aisle are allegedly concerned about.
nan: So I've seen up close and personal how important representation is not just to children, but to anyone embroiled in our legal systems, whether through immigration or otherwise.
nan: And I think it's really important that we provide that support.
nan: With that, I would yield back.
nan: General lady yields bank, who seeks recognition?
nan: I did, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Gentleman from North Carolina, Mr. Bishop's recognition.
nan: If you just think beyond the emotional moment that the amendment provokes, the arguments get very complicated.
nan: Why is it that the child should be regarded as a litigant?
nan: Because the child has been abandoned by a parent to a smuggler, then made the,
nan: the product of the cartels smuggling operation to be deposited on American, on American, American land.
nan: Why then, if you want to confer a government paid for counsel there, why not, the same in Coet Wright that Ms.
nan: Scanlan just spoke to exists on the part of every deprived child in every country around the world?
nan: Why not appoint counsel to all of them?
nan: What really underlies the apparent solicitude for children here, though, is what otherwise is problematic.
nan: It has been exploited by the left about our border problem that has created the catastrophe that we have now.
nan: And that is, for example, asylum claims everyone understands.
nan: All of the purported asylum claims, 90% of them are fabricated, are completely baseless.
nan: They won't prevail.
nan: You count on the fact that the system can't be resourced well enough to, no, no, no, I've already had your five.
nan: The system can't be conceivably resourced well enough to deal with the flow that you've generated by the process of incentivizing people to come and immigrate illegally.
nan: This would exacerbate the very sabotage that has been engineered to accomplish a legislative policy aim that is not in law.
nan: Just like today, Secretary Mariarchus in the Homeland Security Committee was confronted about his testimony before this committee to Mr. Roy back in April of last year in which he
nan: testified under oath that he has operational control of the border.
nan: And the Secure Offense Act, of course, says that operational control of the border means no illegal immigration, no illegal narcotics.
nan: And he explained today that, well, when he was answering the question repeatedly that he had operational control, he was disregarding the operational control definition that the Congress has adopted in favor of one that he believes to be reasonable
nan: If he doesn't like the law passed by Congress, in other words, he simply disregards it, tells Congress he's complying with it, but secretly harbors his own view that it is not binding on him because he does not think it reasonable.
nan: He is sabotaging the law so it cannot be accomplished and all the while moving farther away from accomplishment of the law's objective as passed by Congress.
nan: And that's what this seeks to do.
nan: There's no basis.
nan: Not every American is entitled to a lawyer to be paid for at government expense for any purpose the American wants to assert.
nan: Gideon versus Wayne Wright to the point offered by the ranking member a moment ago is quite limited.
nan: Those are criminal proceedings in which someone's liberty is at stake.
nan: is when the right to counsel attaches at government expense.
nan: You have a due process right to have counsel available to you in a legal proceeding.
nan: Well, this doesn't deny that.
nan: But for say that government provides it, every once in time somebody needs to go, actually they're very important proceedings that are in small claims courts around the country.
nan: People don't get an appointed counsel paid for by the government.
nan: It is, it is,
nan: It is completely unaccomplishable.
nan: And here's the real point.
nan: When you undertake to do these marvelous sounding ideas that cannot work, what you end up with is catastrophe just like Majorcas has produced here in the United States.
nan: 345,000 unaccompanied children in the United States.
nan: And belatedly, the New York Times is writing article after article about the fate to which they've come.
nan: appearing in jobs and working sweatshop type jobs or working labor hard jobs inappropriate to children standing in under the identity and credentials of others around the country figuring out how to pay off the cartels who you are facilitating and building billions of dollars of revenue for pie in the sky
nan: crazy ideas that you think sound humane are harmful and they are destructive.
nan: And it is time for the destructiveness to stop.
nan: That's what this bill will accomplish.
nan: I yield back.
nan: The gentleman yields back the generated from Texas is
nan: Stanley from Texas is recognized.
nan: Very, very quickly.
nan: I just want to specifically go back to Mr. Johnson's amendment.
nan: This seems to be a sort of stone throwing at
nan: President Biden and Secretary of Mayarchus, I don't know what purpose we have and what purpose we have in the legislation that is certainly a hodgepodge, a very difficult points of view that are going to be very complicated and very almost impossible to implement.
nan: But the one key element that I want to say is that there are unaccompanied children.
nan: They've been coming for years.
nan: Mr. Johnson has a very simple amendment.
nan: There's an instance where the child
nan: themselves or children just cannot speak.
nan: They too will have language if they are, um, if they're at language age, but they may not speak.
nan: I held in my hands a nine month old unaccompanied child that was passed from hand to hand and got over the border.
nan: I don't think that child could in any way provide any defense for themselves.
nan: But they would need counsel to articulate the child's plight and condition, factually investigate how they wound up being nine months old, separated from their birth mother or from whoever their guardian is.
nan: The amendment is simple.
nan: It is that children may be incapable of defending themselves or presenting a case.
nan: And I think reasonable men and women should support the amendment
nan: that is a reasonable amendment to provide for the safety and security of any child, in this instance, a child that is a migrant who comes unaccompanied for whatever reason you might define and the representation does not guarantee the child citizenship.
nan: It guarantees that we will do the best we can as a compassionate nation to find where they should go and where they should be.
nan: If that means finding their family,
nan: That is a reputable charge for that council because what happened under the previous administration was a debacle of enormous tragedy and there are people today suffering for the loss of their children yet not found.
nan: I asked my colleagues to support a very reasonable act that we should have on this and I'm happy to yield to the gentlelady from Pennsylvania.
nan: I just wanted to correct one thing.
nan: We've heard several times today that most asylum claims are fictitious or fraudulent.
nan: And I just don't think there's support for that.
nan: The figure we were just told is 90% are fabricated.
nan: The fact is that even if 90% are rejected, it's because most asylum seekers don't have counsel.
nan: The evidence is super clear.
nan: Study after study has shown that if people have counsel who are able to help them overcome the language barriers and the legal barriers, then they are more likely to be found eligible under our laws to be eligible for asylum.
nan: And it's even more important when we have kids at issues.
nan: So with that, I yield back to Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee.
nan: General lady yields back.
nan: My understanding votes have been called.
nan: So the committee will recess until and after votes we have.
nan: There's a classified briefing.
nan: So the plan is to resume the markup as soon as the classified briefing is finished to be back here to complete the immigration legislation.
nan: And then we have a CRA that we want to complete as well.
nan: So we will stand in recess until after votes and then followed by the classified briefing after that.
nan: Committee stands in recess.
nan: Hey, James, we're on the Johnson Amendment.
nan: As soon as it wasn't working.
nan: Yeah.
nan: It wasn't working, so.
nan: All right.
nan: As soon as Jerry gets here, we'll start.
nan: The committee will come to order.
nan: When we recess, the matter before the committee was the Johnson Amendment.
nan: I believe it's, the minority had just spoken on the amendment.
nan: Does anyone seek recognition?
nan: If not, the question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Georgia.
nan: All those in favor say yes.
nan: Aye.
nan: All those opposed say no, no.
nan: The opinion of the chairs, the nos have it.
nan: Gentlemen, request a roll call vote.
nan: The clerk call the roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Jordan votes, no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Buck.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. Tiffany.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Tiffany votes no.
nan: Mr. Massey.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts votes no.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no.
nan: Mr. Benz.
nan: Mr. Benz votes no.
nan: Mr. Klein.
nan: Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Gooden votes no.
nan: Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Mr. Nells.
nan: Mr. Moore.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Kylie.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hagerman.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hagerman votes no.
nan: Mr. Moran.
nan: Mr. Moran votes no.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lee.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lee votes no, Mr. Hunt.
nan: Mr. Hunt, Mr. Frye.
nan: Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Frye votes no.
nan: Mr. Nadler.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgram.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee, votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cohen?
nan: Mr. It's Mr. Johnson's amendment.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Schiff?
nan: Mr. Schiff, vote.
nan: Mr. Cicelyney.
nan: Mr. Mr. Swalwell.
nan: Mr. Liu.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jaya Paul?
nan: Ms.
nan: Jaya Paul votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Correa?
nan: Mr. Kerraya votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan, aye.
nan: Mr. Negoose.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Deen?
nan: Ms.
nan: Eskabar?
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar votes?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Bross?
nan: Ms.
nan: Bush?
nan: Mr. Ivy?
nan: Gentleman from Florida.
nan: Mr. Gates, you are not recorded.
nan: Mr. Gates votes no.
nan: Gentleman from Louisiana.
nan: Mr. Johnson, Louisiana, votes no.
nan: Gentleman from New Jersey.
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Gentleman from Virginia.
nan: Mr. Klein votes no.
nan: Gentleman from Texas.
nan: Nails votes no.
nan: Gentlelady from Indiana.
nan: We got her.
nan: We got her?
nan: She voted.
nan: Anyone else?
nan: Hasn't been recorded who would want to be recorded, not the clerk will report.
nan: Gentleman from Texas.
nan: Mr. Roy, you're not recorded.
nan: Mr. Roy votes no.
nan: Gentleman from New York.
nan: Mr. Nadler votes aye.
nan: Clerk will report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 10 eyes and 20 knows.
nan: The amendment is not approved.
nan: Who seeks recognition?
nan: General lady from Texas.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the dance clerk will report.
nan: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of- Gentleman from California Reserves Point of Order.
nan: Of a substitute offered by Mr. McClend, offered by Ms.
nan: Jackson-Lee, Page 16.
nan: And it will be considered as red.
nan: The gentlelady is recognized.
nan: Is she at the right amendment?
nan: Thank you very much.
nan: Let me acknowledge what I have knowledge and which is to seek the understanding of the holistic viewpoint of this particular amendment.
nan: Bill, I'm offering a common sense amendment to Title VI, restricting a parole.
nan: Title VI drastically limits the use of parole power, but contradicts itself about how parole can be granted.
nan: The bill claims that it limits the DHS from granting parole based on eligibility criteria describing an entire class of potential parole recipients.
nan: We've discussed that with veterans and U.S.
nan: military personnel.
nan: Immediately following this prohibition, the bill outlines the eligibility criteria for two classes of people.
nan: It deems worthy of receiving parole, the spouses and minor children of active duty service members and certain Cuban family members of U.S.
nan: permanent residents.
nan: The provision allowing parole for Cubans is modeled after Cuban family reunification parole, which was created in 2007 to allow Cuban nationals with pending immigrant visa positions to join their sponsoring family members in the United States.
nan: This program was suspended during the Trump administration 2017, but processing resumed in September 22.
nan: I'm thrilled that Republicans have deemed this program worthy of keeping in place.
nan: Their previous anti-parole bill certainly didn't seem to think it was worth saving.
nan: However, I'm confused.
nan: There is another parole program, the Haitian family reunification parole, which was created in 2014 and modeled after the Cuban program.
nan: This program carries nearly identical eligibility requirements with more limitations.
nan: The Trump administration announced that it would terminate this program in 2019, about a year and a half after calling Haiti a S-HIT whole country.
nan: Fortunately, the administration was unable to terminate
nan: the program before leaving office and the Biden administration reversed this decision.
nan: The ongoing situation in Haitian, Haiti is dire.
nan: It is a failed state.
nan: Earlier this month, human rights groups released figures showing that kidnappings in the country had dramatically increased in the three months of the year.
nan: The risk of kidnapping for Haitians is just one more small piece of a wider crisis with escalating gang violence of food shortage, a constitutional
nan: and law enforcement crisis and a cholera outbreak.
nan: I cannot think of any legitimate reason why we should keep the Cuban parole program, but not the Haitian parole program.
nan: And I want to rephrase that.
nan: I think there are legitimate reasons for the Cuban program and legitimate reasons for the Haitian program.
nan: They all should be able to come under this legislation.
nan: And let me be very clear, as relates to Haiti, there are
nan: strong contributing members of the Haitian community, a very vibrant community, and they have found in states throughout the nation, hardworking, the legacy of the Revolutionary War, of which they were a key element, Haitians.
nan: Their history is intertwined with the United States.
nan: They find themselves as doctors, lawyers, business persons, stalwarts in the community, students, members of the United States military.
nan: And I can for the life of me understand and would hope that I would find a bipartisan extension of an olive branch to accept the Jackson Lee Amendment to add the Haitian family reunification program to the amendment.
nan: I'm giving the majority a chance to help me and work with me on this.
nan: It simply adds the provision to the parole section of this bill exempting this population from the restrictions.
nan: While I believe that the restriction of parole authority are
nan: an overreach into a power of traditional reserve for the executive, since the majority refuses to meaningfully modify the language, I'm hopeful that this narrow exception will be acceptable to them.
nan: I cannot imagine why the Haitians would be left out.
nan: They have stood alongside of us.
nan: They have been in uniform alongside of us.
nan: Haitian Americans are in uniform alongside of us.
nan: I understand that I'm missing a Veterans Appreciation program just down the hall, but I hope we can appreciate
nan: all of our American citizens, residents who are patriotic, and all those who served in the United States military who happen to be of Haitian descent and others who happen to be immigrants who have come natural lives and serving and they have family members that need to be unified with them, would you please support the Jackson Lee Amendment adding Haitian family reunification to the
nan: eliminating them from the restrictions under your parole provision, Title VI.
nan: With that, I yield back.
nan: Gentlelady yields back.
nan: This gentleman, California insists on his point of order.
nan: No, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I withdraw the point of order.
nan: Point of order is withdrawn.
nan: The gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr. Tiffany is recognized.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I urge members on both sides of the aisle to oppose this amendment.
nan: I mean, this identifies a significant part of the problem with our immigration system in America.
nan: is trying to use parole to bring in categories of people.
nan: That is not what parole is meant to do.
nan: Parole is meant to be done on a case-by-case basis.
nan: And I understand what the gentle lady from Texas is attempting to do.
nan: And she talked about a narrow exception in regards to the people from Haiti.
nan: But that's what we've been hearing consistently here just prior before we broke.
nan: And now, after the break, we keep hearing about the narrow exceptions.
nan: And then you wonder why the system is overwhelmed and it's not working.
nan: Now, there is an approach that I would suggest to the gentle lady from Texas that she can take is come before the Judiciary Committee and create a visa program or make a proposal
nan: for creating a visa program rather than using parole, which is not what it's meant to do.
nan: To her point in regards to the Cuba Accords, that was a very special situation and was established decades ago and
nan: It was a different situation when you had Fidel Castro and the Russians going all the way back to JFK and when Cuba became a communist country, when he was creating all those problems right next to us, and you had people coming across to Florida.
nan: Very different situation.
nan: The gentleman, Yale.
nan: So certainly.
nan: Let me speak in the most respectful
nan: matter, Mr. Tiffany, because you're being respectful.
nan: I'm offended by that.
nan: I'm enormously offended because you're right.
nan: It started in the Cuban missile crisis.
nan: There was a wet foot, dry foot scenario, which patently discriminated against Haitians.
nan: But more importantly, the Cuban exception, if you will, continues today.
nan: And so the circumstances are the same.
nan: They were under Fidel Castro in your mind, of course.
nan: That's your interpretation as to his desperate position.
nan: Of course, there have been many different positions on Cuba, but Haiti is in the same predicament.
nan: And they should, my amendment narrowly tracks what your language is in terms of the restrictions or the eligibility of Haitians.
nan: And I thank the gentleman for yielding.
nan: I'm offended that it is not like the same.
nan: And I don't want to suggest
nan: that there's some reason that is not the same.
nan: I really don't.
nan: I'm so sorry that you took offense because it was not meant that way at all, a gentle lady from Texas.
nan: But it just goes back to what's the purpose of parole.
nan: Parole is meant to be done on a individual basis.
nan: And if we continue to do these narrow exceptions for Ukrainians, for Haitians, and everyone else,
nan: We have the system that we would put into law, the system that we have at this point that the American people do not want.
nan: And they want this reform.
nan: It's time for the reform.
nan: And I just urge a no vote on this.
nan: And I would urge anyone that wants to make a, propose an amendment in this regard.
nan: Propose your own visa program, bring it before the Judiciary Committee, and let's hear it.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Gentleman from Georgia is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I move to strike the last word.
nan: And you are to the gentlelady from Texas.
nan: I strike the last word.
nan: I strike the last word again.
nan: And I thank Mr. Tiffany for being so gracious to
nan: to allow me to continue this discussion.
nan: Again, I'm trying to find my space here, but, you know, the Attorney General may accept us providing subparagraph B or in Section 214F.
nan: Is discretion parole into the United States temporarily under such conditions as may be prescribed only on a case by case basis?
nan: And I assume this is where you are amending and adding the human reunification.
nan: And so I don't, we are intervening
nan: in an attorney general process and we're intervening by making sure we keep the Cuban family reunification, then I am still stunned why we are not able to add, make that clarification.
nan: I call it a penciled clarification.
nan: Haitians would call it life and death since they're going into a failed state to be able to add to this particular
nan: exception that you provided, if you're going to step out of the framework of existing immigration laws and create a bill that is going to give direction to the administration to the executive, why would you not give direction for Haitians who are in a failed state who have the stories we have heard, I'm looking at Congresswoman Jayapal,
nan: We've been at the border and we've seen Haitians.
nan: We've seen Africans.
nan: We've now seen Chinese, Venezuelans, but we've seen the stories of decapitation, of leaving with the clothes on their back, not being able to live without violence, and there is no government in Haiti.
nan: They have not been able to set up a government.
nan: Please, my colleagues, I would ask that we take the Jackson Lee Amendment.
nan: It is not
nan: one parole after another.
nan: It is tracking the Cuban exception and it's adding Haiti that has come from our interpretation, the State Department's interpretation, the various international organizations, including the United Nations.
nan: And to give this exception, and though the Cuban situation can go back to the Cuban Missile Crisis,
nan: You know, it has been refined in 2007 and Haiti was in 2014.
nan: So I would just say that this is an equal set of facts.
nan: We would hold to the same strict criteria to allow Haitian reunification, family reunification.
nan: Again, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.
nan: The gentleman you're back?
nan: Yes.
nan: Gentleman Heal is back.
nan: She seeks recognition.
nan: The question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlelady from Texas.
nan: All those in favor say, yay?
nan: Aye.
nan: All those opposed say no.
nan: No.
nan: The chair, the no's no.
nan: Roll call.
nan: Roll call.
nan: Have been requested.
nan: The clerk call the roll roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Jordan, no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Buck.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Gates?
nan: Mr. Gates votes no.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. Tiffany.
nan: Mr. Massey.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no.
nan: Mr. Benz.
nan: Mr. Vince votes no, Mr. Klein.
nan: Mr. Klein, Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Mr. Nell's?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Nell's votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Kiley votes no.
nan: Mr. Haley?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hageman?
nan: Mr. Moran?
nan: No.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lee votes no.
nan: Mr. Hunt?
nan: No Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Fots no.
nan: Mr. Nadler?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Nader votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgren?
nan: Ms.
nan: Lofgren votes aye.
nan: Mr. Jackson Lee.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Jackson Lee votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cohen.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia?
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Schiff?
nan: Yes, aye.
nan: Mr. Schiff votes.
nan: I. Mr. Cicillini.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cicillini votes.
nan: I, Mr. Swalwell.
nan: Mr. Liu.
nan: Mr. Chiappal.
nan: Votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Correa votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Canylan.
nan: Mr. Ngoose.
nan: Ms.
nan: Mcbath?
nan: Ms.
nan: Mcbath votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean.
nan: Ms.
nan: Deen, Ms.
nan: Escobar.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ross.
nan: Ms.
nan: Bush.
nan: Mr. Ivy.
nan: Mr. Ivy votes aye.
nan: A gentleman from Texas.
nan: Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Gooden votes no.
nan: Gentlelady from Indiana.
nan: Ms.
nan: Spartz.
nan: Ms.
nan: Spartz votes no.
nan: Gentleman from Texas.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Mr. Roy votes no.
nan: Clerk will report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 13.
nan: Mr. Massey, you are not recorded.
nan: Mr. Massey votes no.
nan: Clerk report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 13 eyes and 21 notes.
nan: Amendment is not approved.
nan: Who seeks recognition?
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan, General-Aid from Pennsylvania is recognized.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
nan: Gentleman from California.
nan: Clerk report.
nan: I think we could be able to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock, offered by Ms.
nan: Scanlan.
nan: Reserve a point of order.
nan: Gentleman from California reserves a point of order.
nan: Without objection, the amendment would be considered as read.
nan: General-Aid for Pennsylvania is recognized.
nan: Thank you.
nan: My amendment is simple.
nan: It would exempt unaccompanied children from this legislation and allow them to apply for asylum as our laws intended.
nan: The section I'm proposing to amend purports to bar all individuals who cross the border between ports of entry from seeking asylum.
nan: That means people, including children, would be forced to wait in Mexico to cross the border and be processed.
nan: This policy would make unaccompanied kids sitting ducks for the cartels.
nan: vulnerable to exploitation, abuse, kidnapping, and murder.
nan: Under the Remain in Mexico program, there were over 1,500 publicly reported cases of murder, rape, torture, kidnapping, and other violent assaults against migrants returned under the program.
nan: And just last month, dozens of at-risk and vulnerable migrants were left to be burned alive at an immigration center in Juarez.
nan: Is that the fate we want for unaccompanied children seeking safety in our country?
nan: Congress has long recognized unaccompanied children's unique vulnerabilities to trafficking and exploitation, and certainly our colleagues have talked about that a lot today.
nan: Age developmental stage, comprehension, communication constraints, all these things can be impacted by the profound trauma they often endure.
nan: In fact, Congress passed the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act in 2008.
nan: on a sweeping bipartisan basis after carefully considering ways to protect unaccompanied children from returning to human trafficking and other dangers.
nan: In expelling all unaccompanied children at the border, the provision in Title I of this bill would effectively nullify the protections in the TVPRA and dismantle Congress's central framework for keeping unaccompanied children out of the hands of traffickers.
nan: all while stripping law enforcement agencies of critical tools for detecting and prosecuting child trafficking incidents.
nan: There's no reason for America to shut the door on some of the most vulnerable migrants, those being unaccompanied children.
nan: Turning these children away at the border will make those unaccompanied children vulnerable to human trafficking, as well as sexual abuse, extreme violence, and other harm.
nan: The very things our Republican colleagues time and again claim to stand against.
nan: I encourage all of my colleagues to support this amendment and I yield back.
nan: General lady yields back.
nan: The gentleman from California assist on his point of order.
nan: Oh, no, I do not.
nan: Point of order is withdrawn.
nan: The gentleman from Arizona is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I oppose this very dangerous, actually, amendment.
nan: Let me tell you why.
nan: You're talking about you want to protect the most vulnerable.
nan: Well, even the Biden administration through the CBP1 app is trying to drive people away from the cartels to the ports of entry.
nan: Why?
nan: Because that is where they can go and they can actually immediately come in contact with a CBP agent or an OFO agent and say, look, here I am.
nan: I want asylum, whatever.
nan: When you say to an unaccompanied child, 72% who are ages 15 to 18, guess what?
nan: You're going to get asylum by staying between the ports of entry.
nan: What you're doing is you are empowering the coyotes, the cartels, the narco traffickers, these very inhumane, dangerous people.
nan: I understand, I think, the purpose of this amendment, but it will have unintended consequences that are going to make it even harder and more dangerous for these unaccompanied children.
nan: And guess what?
nan: Have you ever run into a,
nan: to a group of people with some unaccompanied children that are five years old, six years old.
nan: I've seen them three and four years old.
nan: They're there.
nan: They're not without anybody, they're not with anybody that is their parent or their guardian, but they were brought there by the cartels.
nan: That's where you're empowering with this amendment.
nan: I think this is wrongheaded and dangerous.
nan: And Mr. Chairman, I oppose and urge everyone to oppose this.
nan: and yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Is the expectation of the lady from Washington is recognized.
nan: Thank you.
nan: I just wanted to again correct the record because my colleagues across the aisle just keep making mistakes, frankly.
nan: President Biden has never, never asked chill unaccompanied children to use the CBP app.
nan: They were exempted from the very beginning of doing that.
nan: I mean, I'm happy to yield to you if you want to say some.
nan: Yeah, thank you.
nan: Thanks for yielding.
nan: That's not what I said.
nan: Okay.
nan: What I said is the CBP 1 app recognizes that it, by acknowledging the CBP 1 app, even the Biden administration is trying to direct people to the ports of entry.
nan: But they've never made, they've never made unaccompanied children.
nan: And I didn't say they did.
nan: This, this is specifically about unaccompanied children.
nan: Right.
nan: And it's about making sure that there is a process.
nan: to exempt them and to allow them to remain.
nan: I mean, look, I'm in strong support of Ms.
nan: Scanlon's amendment.
nan: The reality is that these are kids who really should be able to come in.
nan: And this amendment is very simple.
nan: It's just saying we should exempt unaccompanied children from this legislation and allow them to apply for asylum as our laws intended.
nan: And it bars all individuals, this provision bars all individuals who cross the border between ports of entry from seeking asylum.
nan: I'm not going to belabor this point, but I just want to be clear that when you make statements, I just hope that they're accurate.
nan: I yield back.
nan: I just say it right back at you attempting to quote.
nan: Gentlelady yields back.
nan: Who seeks recognition.
nan: Mr. Chairman.
nan: The gentleman from California.
nan: I simply make the point that this notion that requiring children to enter through ports of entry leaves them at the mercy of the cartels.
nan: Who do you think is bringing them to the border in the first place?
nan: They come deeply indebted to the cartels.
nan: The cartels charge thousands of dollars to transport these children, and then they hand them over to this administration, which happily completes the transfer of these innocent kids to so-called sponsors throughout the country who then exploit them in sex and drug trafficking, of sweatshops, all documented in recent articles from no less than the New York Times.
nan: Do you really think it is safer for children to cross the desert and be abandoned by the cartels and hopes they'll be rescued by the CBP and then traffic throughout the rest of the country rather than come to safe ports of entry?
nan: What are you thinking?
nan: This is one of the most absurd arguments I've heard.
nan: I've spoken to ranchers at the border who've had the heartbreaking experience of finding dead migrants on their ranches who are presumably brought by the cartels to the border and left on their own.
nan: How do you stop this trafficking?
nan: How do you save these children from this ordeal?
nan: I've asked border patrol agents that in many trips to the border, and they all tell me the same thing.
nan: Get the kids back home.
nan: Once the kids are sent back home, word spreads very quickly that the cartels can no longer get them into the United States.
nan: And one border patrol officer told me, you know, the cartels don't give refunds.
nan: You want to stop this trafficking, get these kids safely home, and it will stop.
nan: And until it does, you are responsible for these tragedies on the border.
nan: The gentleman yield to the gentleman from Texas.
nan: The gentleman from Texas.
nan: I think the gentleman from California, and I couldn't agree more with this characterization.
nan: I've got a photo here.
nan: I'm not going to turn it around because it's got the faces of kids in it, but it was just sent to me just today from the county attorney, from a county in South Texas that
nan: has a photo with two little kids, probably in this sort of two to four age range, jammed in the back of a vehicle, packed to the brim, smugglers running the car, and they, this is the status, it's the normal course of operations going on in the South Texas all the time.
nan: We're encouraging this.
nan: Our country, the supposedly greatest, most powerful, strongest country in the world is encouraging this.
nan: The last time I was down at the border, I go probably about every couple of months, down at the river talking to people coming, and almost every single person that I talked to were saying they wanted to come here for a better way of life.
nan: And God bless them.
nan: I absolutely admire them, desire to want to come here for a better way of life.
nan: But, they weren't, any of them weren't coming to me saying, oh, you know, I'm coming here because I'm afraid of what was happening to me and whatever it was, whatever, they wanted a job, they wanted opportunity.
nan: And I do not begrudge that.
nan: But we are allowing them to be used.
nan: We are, that's what we're doing.
nan: We are allowing them to be used by cartels for profit.
nan: And yes, some of them aren't paying cartels.
nan: Would the gentleman yields?
nan: Some of them are moving.
nan: I might yield in a minute, but that's the reality of what we're dealing with, is that we're setting up a situation where the little girl that I was talking to, I then broke off and talked to the two boys that were right behind her, and I asked them, where were you last night?
nan: And they were spending the night in the park across the Rio Grande.
nan: And I asked them, anything bad happened to that girl.
nan: And both the little boys said, yes.
nan: And she was a 14 year old girl, give her take.
nan: And they said she was sexually abused.
nan: I was talking to them in my broken Spanish.
nan: That's what they told me.
nan: Now, he said, oh, you're making that up.
nan: No, this is the reality of what happens down there.
nan: We talk to the people in the law enforcement and border patrol and the people down there all the time.
nan: That is no way for us to do business.
nan: We can set up systems for people to be able to avail themselves of legal paths to come here.
nan: We can open our hearts, open our arms to help people to claim asylum legitimately.
nan: But you cannot have a system that is utter chaos when you have 7.7 billion other people around the world who of course would love to come to this country.
nan: I yield back to the chairman.
nan: I'm sorry.
nan: I've used up my time.
nan: Thomas, time has expired.
nan: The lady from Texas recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Mr. Roy, I actually agree with much of what you have said.
nan: I speak to migrants all the time.
nan: Obviously, I live in El Paso.
nan: El Paso has been the epicenter for some time.
nan: We had the highest number of encounters in 2022, and we are already slated to have the highest number of encounters in 2023.
nan: I speak to the migrants every time that I can.
nan: And you're absolutely right.
nan: I have seen a shift more and more migrants who are not claiming persecution, but would like an economic opportunity.
nan: Could not agree with you more.
nan: And it is more and more unsustainable over time.
nan: And the longer that Congress does nothing, the worse it will become.
nan: Where you and I do not agree, but where I wish we could find common ground,
nan: is I think number one, we have to acknowledge this is not the fault of one person.
nan: I mean, I have lived in my community all my life.
nan: I have volunteered to help migrants since I was in my 20s.
nan: I'm now 53 years old.
nan: So this has been going on my entire life.
nan: Has it gotten more pronounced?
nan: Yes, a thousand percent it has.
nan: It's been steadily growing since 2014.
nan: What we need to do is recognize that part of the answer, and I'm with you, I believe we've got to have strong enforcement.
nan: We've got to know who's coming into our country.
nan: We've got to have as much security and safety as possible.
nan: But one avenue for getting there is legal pathways.
nan: And that's where we are not speaking
nan: to each other in a way to find some unity, but I guarantee you, Mr. Roy, that if we open up some- Point of order, the gentle ladies to direct your comments to the chair.
nan: Mr. Chairman.
nan: So, Mr. Chairman, I guarantee you, if we were to work together on finding legal pathways in addition to enforcement mechanisms, I think you would find unity and bipartisan support.
nan: So I am...
nan: I just, I want to express that I want to solve this.
nan: I want to address this.
nan: I don't think the status quo is humane.
nan: I think it is incredibly inhumane.
nan: But I think the, because what we have been doing is the same thing over and over and over again, building walls,
nan: seeking deterrence.
nan: Let's try a new path.
nan: And that new path is opening up legal pathways.
nan: And I'll work with you on that every day of the week.
nan: I yield back.
nan: General lady yields back.
nan: The question occurs on the gentleman from Florida is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: And I wanted to take a moment to observe some of the findings of a Florida grand jury that had been convened on this subject.
nan: And what the grand jury found was that children are often treated to the most perilous of journeys as a consequence of policy decisions that allowed them to be released into the interior of the country.
nan: And so what this Florida grand jury did was they reviewed thousands of documents from our Department of Children and Families, from our health and human services agencies, from our safety net organizations, and they issued a scathing report asking
nan: essentially the Congress to choose a different path than that has been chosen by the Biden administration.
nan: And so I want to take a moment to reflect on some of those findings in the record.
nan: Quote, our findings are clear.
nan: If any Florida resident exposed U.S.
nan: born children to this process, they would justifiably be arrested for child neglect or worse.
nan: We do not think children should be less protected simply because they were born outside our borders and brought here by a government agency.
nan: Those here in Florida who are sending money and other aid to facilitate this process should know what they are funding.
nan: At nearly every juncture, travelers, forging the Darien Gap and other notorious routes must pay handlers, armed militia groups, native tribes, local warlords, gangs, or drug cartels,
nan: in order to obtain safe passage.
nan: In many cases, the toll is exacted in lives, labor, or sexual abuse.
nan: They face disease, famine, drought, a perilous jungle trek, insects, and predators, both human and animal.
nan: One child disclosed that during her journey, several of her group were robbed and attacked by rival gang members, decapitated and raped.
nan: The child disclosed that she was one of the victims of that rape.
nan: Grand juries are not political entities.
nan: They are sourced from regular folks who review evidence, and perhaps this body ever so partisan in addressing the issue would glean some clarity from what we are hearing.
nan: The critique of our government from the grand jury was this.
nan: Armed with a budget of billions of taxpayer dollars and working with activists and nonprofit organizations, which receive hundreds of millions of dollars in grant monies, hold millions in assets, and pay cadres of executive salaries in the hundreds of thousands of dollars is handling thousands of foreign children in a dangerous manner.
nan: This is a nonpartisan analysis from a grand jury in my state, deeply concerned,
nan: about the way these decisions that the Biden administration is making is affecting these children.
nan: And, Mr. Chairman, I seek that all of the findings and presentments of the Florida grand jury on unaccompanied children be entered into the record.
nan: Without objection.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Thank you, gentlemen.
nan: I yield to the gentleman from Texas.
nan: I think the gentleman from Florida, and I think we're making those points.
nan: And look, and I'll say to the gentlelady from El Paso that I take her words to heart, and I'd be happy to have conversations about what we can do going forward.
nan: I think where we disagree as you laid out is I have come to the conclusion, observationally, having worked on this issue as a staffer for John Cornyn, a staffer for Ted Cruz, as someone who was working for Governor Perry at the time this was being debated, then now having seen it now.
nan: up close and personally, and I was working as a lawyer on the Senate Judiciary Committee, there are multiple of those debates, is that we have to do this sequentially, in my view.
nan: You might disagree, but I'm just giving you sort of an idea of how you, in my view, how you do this.
nan: In my opinion, you have to establish that you're going to enforce the rule of law.
nan: And the example of your predecessor, Sylvester Reyes, right, was a part of building infrastructure and fencing in El Paso.
nan: And I'm directing my remarks, I guess, interpurpately not to the chair.
nan: But through the chair, I would argue that the predecessor of the gentlelady from El Paso worked on building the fence there.
nan: Would you yield 10 seconds?
nan: I would yield, yes, ma'am.
nan: No, he can't.
nan: No, it's not my time.
nan: It's my time.
nan: All right, I yield back to gentlemen to Florida.
nan: I have a series of additional unanimous consent request, Mr. Chairman.
nan: From the New York Times, April 17, I'm sorry, from the New York Times, as migrant children were put to work, U.S.
nan: ignored warnings.
nan: Objection.
nan: New York Times, February 25th, 2023, alone and exploited.
nan: Migrant children work brutal jobs across the United States.
nan: Without objection.
nan: New York Post, March 22nd, 2021, Mexican drug cartels use kids as decoys to smuggle in members.
nan: Without objection.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Mr. Chairman.
nan: Yields back.
nan: Gentleman from Rhode Island is recognized.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I moved to strike the last word, and I yield to the general lady from
nan: Texas.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Cicillini.
nan: And not to Mr. Roy, but to the chair.
nan: This is precisely what we've been doing for three decades.
nan: For three decades, we have said,
nan: no immigration reform until the border is secure.
nan: That's a fact.
nan: And so we've not had in 30 years, over 30 years, any new legal pathways.
nan: The closest we came was about a decade ago.
nan: And the Senate passed a bipartisan bill that would have secured historic sums for border security and at the same time opened up legal pathways.
nan: And it died in the house at that time.
nan: And so we've been doing, we've been pursuing that same policy of let's do enforcement only first.
nan: And then once the border is quote unquote secure,
nan: then we will do immigration reform.
nan: And so my contention is, and I think the facts support it, we have seen over the past 30 years a closing off of legal pathways.
nan: We've had walls built.
nan: We now fund DHS at historic levels.
nan: We have seen all sorts of deterrent policies at play.
nan: None of that has truly stemmed the flow of people in a way that would make it more manageable.
nan: And as I mentioned in some earlier comments, we've created one pathway for migrants.
nan: And that one pathway is asylum.
nan: So we should not be shocked that the asylum system is overwhelmed, overloaded,
nan: overused because that's the only line people can get into.
nan: That's the only right way that many people see for themselves.
nan: I don't believe that we can take, nor even if we could, we shouldn't take every person, obviously.
nan: But if we want to create a more manageable system, it has to be a combination of both of those, not just one before the other, and I yield back to Mr. Sagan.
nan: General lady yields back.
nan: Mr. Chairman.
nan: Oh, I'm sorry.
nan: Oh, now you go back to you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Mr. Chairman, my time.
nan: Gentleman from Texas.
nan: Mr. strike the last word.
nan: And so the gentlelady, what I would say is 2006, comprehensive immigration reform, which touched all aspects, security, future flow, status, 2007, 2012, 13, 2018, multiple attempts by both parties
nan: in diverging places in the House and the Senate to work on various forms of quote, comprehensive immigration reform, all of which the bow broke, okay, no matter what your perspective is and what we should have had or not should have had in those bills, all of which the bow ultimately broke.
nan: And the point is, is that we've not been able to do that.
nan: I've come to the conclusion that the biggest reason why is, is because we have a large block of the American people who, with a very good reason, don't believe we're actually serious about securing the border in the first instance.
nan: That's the fundamental problem.
nan: And when I brought up Mr. Reyes, the gentlelady's predecessor,
nan: My point is, it's a Democrat, former congressman from Texas who was a part of building infrastructure that actually did a pretty good job of stopping some of the problems that El Paso was dealing with with the flow.
nan: Is it a total panacea?
nan: Of course not.
nan: But when you have policies, as we do today, and the gentlelady had said something about it, it's not just blaming one person.
nan: I mean, okay, fair enough.
nan: I agree.
nan: We've got years of things that have led to this.
nan: But you cannot help but look at a chart of the numbers of what we've seen since January of 21 and see a direct correlation to the policy choices of the current administration in terms of what they did with micro protection protocols in January, basically making very clear how that would work, and if you come to the United States and claim asylum,
nan: say asylum, you'll get processed and released immediately, NGOs will move you around the country.
nan: We all know this is true.
nan: We've all been to tent facilities along the border.
nan: We see the processing.
nan: When that happens and you have a flood of people, again, remember Jay Johnson under President Obama?
nan: What was it?
nan: A thousand a week was a crisis.
nan: What did we just have in March?
nan: 200,000, and that doesn't even include the parole numbers that were done through, I think, illegally, using a case-by-case basis to run those numbers up.
nan: So you're really looking at 230, 240?
nan: And so these numbers just blow the lid off of Jay Johnson and Barack Obama.
nan: I mean, Jay Johnson was at least credibly, in my opinion, trying to say, let's hold the line, secure the border, and not invite a flood at the border.
nan: My point being, these policies matter.
nan: And so we should try to set the standard for the world to say, here's how you're going to do it.
nan: And it's not just asylum.
nan: You've got a million people getting green cards.
nan: There's that path.
nan: Do I think we need to adjust how we deal with future flow and deal with immigration?
nan: Absolutely.
nan: Do I think we need to have some possibilities for guest worker programs and make it work and match tech and skills and ag?
nan: Of course.
nan: I don't know anybody on this side of the aisle disagrees, but every time we try,
nan: We never get security.
nan: And every time we try to touch chain migration or family, we get blown out of the water.
nan: Would you- Would you- Would you- Actually reform the system?
nan: Would the gentleman yield?
nan: I will yield to the gentlelady.
nan: Thank you so much.
nan: And here's what I would share with you.
nan: First and foremost, yes, one of my predecessors was a Border Patrol agent who supported comprehensive immigration reform, number one.
nan: And building the wall.
nan: Yes, yes, actually you're right.
nan: He did.
nan: But the second thing that I would share with you is if you look at the data and we really, I will share with you the data from the CBP, the numbers, we know, we know for a fact that during the Trump administration, the numbers began growing.
nan: We know that.
nan: I visited and I brought 20% of Congress to El Paso to see the overcrowded facilities because the numbers were so high.
nan: The numbers dropped precipitously in March of 2020 for a few months.
nan: That coincided with COVID when the border was shut down.
nan: And the numbers- Reclaiming my time- The numbers started going back up before the November election.
nan: Reclaiming my time, because we got about 35 seconds left.
nan: The fact of the matter is, the numbers that were spiking were dealt with by the previous administration.
nan: And my colleagues on the other side of my eye on may not like that, but those numbers plummeted.
nan: They plummeted and it wasn't COVID.
nan: There were, no, no, it was not COVID.
nan: There were significant clear results from the policies that were adopted that stopped the magnet for people coming to the river.
nan: That's very clear from anybody who you talked to at Border Patrol.
nan: And so happy to talk sidebar on that, but that's the fact.
nan: We had a flood, Trump dealt with it.
nan: We've got to not have the policies that are continuing to attract people and that's what this bill's about.
nan: Gentlemen, gentlemen's time has expired.
nan: Gentlemen from New Jersey is recognized.
nan: Move to strike the last word very, very quickly.
nan: When we speak about the walls and the walls that were built, remember, most of them were not completely built.
nan: The program would have been much more successful, just particularly what I saw even in Arizona and Yuma, if that wall was complete,
nan: If any of the walls were complete, we'd be in much safer and better shape.
nan: And that was something that Republicans and Democrats both agreed upon.
nan: So we can't use the walls as an example of a failure because we never really got to where we should be.
nan: Would the gentleman yield?
nan: I will.
nan: You know, one of the other things that was just brought up that I think the two members were sort of batting back and forth.
nan: You know, they did say that the rate was rising, you know, when President Trump left office and he was dealing with it.
nan: But I heard that it went down because of COVID.
nan: When you came here, when was, when did COVID end?
nan: Did it end on the day that President Biden took office and it spiked?
nan: So the rise during COVID is what we're talking about here today, isn't it?
nan: Exactly, sir.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Thank you for so yielding.
nan: No problem.
nan: I yield.
nan: And those numbers started dropping.
nan: And yes, of course, 20 was an impact, but those numbers dropped precipitously as a result of this policies.
nan: In the fall of 19, heading into 20, President Biden takes office, adopts the policies the president adopted, and those numbers spike off the chart.
nan: Policies matter.
nan: They have consequences.
nan: I yield back to the gentleman from New Jersey.
nan: I yield back.
nan: The gentleman yields back.
nan: The lady from Pennsylvania is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: And I moved to strike the last word.
nan: Gentlemen, recognize.
nan: Our gentle ladies recognize.
nan: Thank you.
nan: I will yield in a moment to my friend from Texas.
nan: But I do want to redirect folks to the amendment that is in front of us, and I rise in support of this amendment.
nan: After all, all it does is to show compassion.
nan: to an unaccompanied child who doesn't know the rules of the road and the rules as determined by or would like to be determined by the other side of the aisle.
nan: If a child comes not through a port of entry, you would assume that they should never have a chance at asylum.
nan: What kind of judge and jury are you of the human condition?
nan: Where is your compassion?
nan: So I rise in strong support of this amendment and I yield to my friend and colleague from Texas.
nan: Thank you so much, Ms.
nan: Dean.
nan: So I have CBP data here.
nan: Beginning in January of 2019, the numbers started spiking.
nan: They did decrease.
nan: in the fall of 2019, early 2020.
nan: And even after Title 42 was enacted, beginning in May of 2020, the numbers started going back up.
nan: And I know this for a fact, even without having this data in front of me, which I'd like unanimous consent to enter into the record.
nan: Without objection.
nan: I know it for a fact because I live on the border and because I work and collaborate with all of the agencies, NGOs, local governments that deal with the situation on the border.
nan: So the whole point of this is to once again demonstrate.
nan: that this is not just, that the flow of humanity is not necessarily a result of the policies on the border.
nan: We are seeing a hemispheric shift.
nan: And if we don't act in a way that is meaningful or strategic, if we keep doing the same thing over and over and over again, that is the definition of insanity.
nan: And our country has chosen to address migration as a border-only issue for 30 years.
nan: If we truly want to solve this, then we would do something differently.
nan: And I say, let's try opening up legal pathways for better border management.
nan: I yield back to my colleague.
nan: Thank you.
nan: General lady yields back.
nan: Question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlelady from Pennsylvania.
nan: All those in favor, say aye.
nan: Aye.
nan: Those opposed, no, no.
nan: The opinion of the chair, the no's have it.
nan: I'd request a roll call, though.
nan: Roll call being requested, the clerk will call the roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan, no.
nan: Mr. Jordan votes no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Issa votes no.
nan: Mr. Buck.
nan: Mr. Gates, Mr. Gates votes no.
nan: Mr. Johnson, Louisiana.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Tiffany votes no.
nan: Mr. Massey.
nan: Mr. Roy?
nan: Mr. Roy votes no.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: votes no.
nan: Mr. Benz.
nan: Mr. Benz votes no.
nan: Mr. Klein.
nan: Mr. Klein votes no.
nan: Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Mr. Nell's.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Nell's votes.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Moore votes.
nan: Mr. Kiley.
nan: No.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hageman.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Mosegman.
nan: Mr. Mons.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Moran.
nan: Mr. Moran votes no, Ms.
nan: Lee?
nan: Ms.
nan: Lee votes no.
nan: Mr. Hunt.
nan: Mr. Hunt, votes no.
nan: Mr. Fry.
nan: Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Mr. Knowler, no.
nan: Mr. Nadler?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgren, aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgren, aye.
nan: Mr. Jackson Lee votes.
nan: Mr. Cohen.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Schiff.
nan: Mr. Cicillini?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cicillini votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Swalwell.
nan: Mr.
nan: Ms.
nan: Gaiapal.
nan: Mr. Ayapal votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Correa?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Crayo votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Ngoose.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Eskabar.
nan: Votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Eskabar votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Mr. Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Mr. Gentlelady from Indiana.
nan: Ms.
nan: Barts, you're not recorded.
nan: Ms.
nan: Barts votes no.
nan: Mr. Massey, you're not recorded.
nan: Mr. Massy votes no.
nan: Gentleman from Texas.
nan: Mr. Gooden votes now.
nan: Clerk will report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 13 eyes and 23 knows.
nan: The amendment is not approved.
nan: The gentle lady from Pennsylvania is recognized.
nan: Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
nan: Clerk or report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I. Gentleman from California Reserve's point of order.
nan: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Ms.
nan: Scanlon.
nan: Without objection.
nan: The amendment is considered as read.
nan: Gentlelady is recognized for five minutes.
nan: Thank you.
nan: My Republican colleagues just voted down my amendment to protect all unaccompanied children from being turned away at the border.
nan: And we've heard that some of our colleagues have concerns that have to do with the number of teenagers seeking asylum.
nan: So I've edited my amendment to exempt only unaccompanied children under the age of five from Title I of the bill.
nan: The fact is the bill is written would do nothing to meaningfully reform our asylum system.
nan: Instead, it would effectively destroy it.
nan: But the section we're discussing would end the right to asylum for anyone, including the unaccompanied children who this second amendment would protect those five years older younger who cross the border between points of entry.
nan: And of course, these very young children clearly have no agency to decide where they are going to cross the border.
nan: I think we have to discount our colleagues argument that these children could be sent safely home when clearly home is not safe, whether because there are no parents at home or home is too dangerous for them to be safe.
nan: Clearly, the bill offered by our colleagues doesn't help keep children safe.
nan: In fact, every provision would harm children, particularly those in danger of trafficking.
nan: Republicans on this committee want to take critical protections away from vulnerable children seeking relief from persecution and trafficking and threaten their right to asylum at our borders.
nan: I'm hoping that those members who didn't vote for my first amendment will consider that unaccompanied children under five, basically toddlers,
nan: are uniquely vulnerable and deserve our safety and protection.
nan: And I'm hoping my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would take pity on the toddlers this amendment would protect and show them compassion and help them find safety.
nan: So I encourage all my colleagues to support this amendment and I yield back.
nan: General Lee yields, generally yields back.
nan: Yes, I'll yield to Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee.
nan: Thank you, Chairman.
nan: Let me thank the gentlelady for her precise amendment and also her attempt of an olive branch and clarification.
nan: I heard one member well intended on the other side said that's why we're going to get them safely back to their country.
nan: I would venture to say that there is no safe passage back.
nan: It is unfortunate that the conditions are such that people
nan: would be willing to send unaccompanied children in whatever way they can do.
nan: They are coming five years old, three years old.
nan: And there is no way.
nan: You can't put them on a Greyhound bus.
nan: You cannot put them on a train.
nan: You cannot air shoot them through, parachute them down, torpedo them out of a cannon to get them back to their families.
nan: It is a treacherous
nan: It is only God knows how they survive.
nan: And so I don't know how that return can be expedited or can be, if you will, safely done.
nan: And I would think minimally we could find some refuge for children in that age who are without the abilities to take care of themselves.
nan: It is likely sometimes when they come.
nan: that any adult that might have been traveling with them is detained or scattered.
nan: And so they are really left to their own devices.
nan: And we have the responsibility to separate them anyhow.
nan: And so when they're separated, that age cannot express much about what their direction is.
nan: I know that some have paper pinned to them with some direction on it, but I have seen and heard that it is difficult to find individuals who are supposed to take these children.
nan: So I want to commend the gentlelady from Pennsylvania to define and refine what we mean by giving those children exemption under this legislation.
nan: I end my point by saying, I am still trying to get the mission of this legislation because it would be helpful if we went back to that framework of comprehensive immigration reform, which included farm workers, were dealt with DACA, dealt with
nan: unaccompanied children, family reunification, border security, more equipment at the border.
nan: But again, I'm still struggling to find out what the mission is and purpose of this legislation, how it be implemented.
nan: You have a very fine exception, and I ask, uh, join in supporting your amendment.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Gentlelady yields back.
nan: The gentleman from California does not insist on his, uh, point of order.
nan: It is recognized, uh, for five minutes.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Mr. Speaker, this is perhaps the most absurd amendment we've seen yet.
nan: Children under the age of five, toddlers.
nan: So instead of the cartels sending toddlers through ports of entry, our friends would rather have them delivered through the open desert.
nan: We've seen toddlers thrown over walls or thrown into rivers, hoping the border patrol will be able to get them and to create a diversion so that those same cartels can smuggle drugs and contraband while that diversion has been created by them.
nan: This absolutely guarantees that's going to continue.
nan: The General Letty seems to think that these toddlers made it across thousands of miles of jungles and deserts all by themselves.
nan: Is the general lady so naive as to think this is all happening on its own?
nan: In danger of trafficking?
nan: They're all being trafficked.
nan: No child of five is being deliberately persecuted by their government.
nan: They are being exploited and trafficked.
nan: The cartels use them to create border diversions.
nan: They use them for exploitation.
nan: And they are aided, abetted, and encouraged by the policies of this Democratic Party.
nan: I am often
nan: amazed that the Democrats will obsess indefinitely about the institution of slavery that was abolished in this country more than a century and a half ago, abolished by the way, by the Republicans.
nan: And yet they turn a complete blind eye to the indentured servitude that they have created by their own policies.
nan: You know, at least if these toddlers are delivered through a point of entry, they will not face the perils of the hundreds of desolate miles that are between the ports of entry.
nan: Does this not even dawn on our colleagues across the aisle?
nan: I find this absurd.
nan: I yield back.
nan: You want to yield to me?
nan: Thank you.
nan: I'll use just that half time.
nan: You know, the gentleman makes some very good points.
nan: Being a member who has a long stretch of the Mexican border from San Diego to Imperial County, I'm acutely aware that our port of entries, which are the busiest land ports of entry in the world,
nan: are able to handle a great many people who approach there.
nan: And in between, we handle a great many people trying to circumvent those ports.
nan: What's amazing to me about this amendment, and I want to speak to the amendment, is I know what my Border Patrol does and shame on anyone on your side of the aisle who pretends they don't know.
nan: No five-year-old is ever returned unless we can determine their true and correct parent
nan: and that that parent is capable and competent, and that that parent or next of kin is in a country which they are returned to.
nan: And the reality is, five-year-olds, if they have a US presence, are in fact unified with their parents and would continue to be.
nan: They certainly are not at risk of specific harm because of their political beliefs or their religious beliefs, and the list goes on.
nan: But they are nevertheless,
nan: treated as children, never, never, never returned in unaccompanied.
nan: And so the very idea that we were going to do this for five and under eliminates the reality of how they have been and under our new bill still would be treated.
nan: They would be treated humanely.
nan: They would try to find an appropriate relative.
nan: If they could not find the relative, they would not be returned to some other country.
nan: They would, in fact, be put into care in the United States.
nan: That is what my Border Patrol and my customs and immigration people do, and they do it every day.
nan: They did it under President Clinton.
nan: They did it under President Bush.
nan: They did it under President Trump.
nan: They did it under President Obama, and they're doing it the same.
nan: We are dealing today with the policies and the changes that have made our border a mockery of a border.
nan: And even when people get up and tell me about how much equipment is at the border, I have that border fence.
nan: And whether the gates are open or close, installed or not installed, it means nothing if the instructions of every one of my hardworking border patrol agents and ICE agents is that their job is to be Uber drivers to get these people to the airport and to the buses, and in fact, to turn back no one, then the fence means nothing.
nan: The fence in San Diego was built to help make the community safe, and it did so.
nan: And the fence no longer makes them safe, and it certainly no longer has anything to do with immigration.
nan: I yield back to the gentleman, thank him for his time.
nan: The gentleman yields back.
nan: The gentlelady from Washington is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I want to rise in strong support of Ms.
nan: Scanlan's amendment.
nan: And I'm confused by what my colleague just said, because the whole point of the bill is that these kids would be returned back.
nan: I mean, right now, that's not the case, but the bill is changing that and saying that if you came, if you come between ports of entry, you would be turned back.
nan: So Ms.
nan: Scanlan's amendment is responding to the bill that is before us.
nan: And I think it's a really humane, if narrower than what I would like amendment because you already voted down the one that would have exempted all unaccompanied children if they come between ports of entry.
nan: This one is now saying, okay, well, if you don't want to do that, then how about we just exempt all unaccompanied children under five who come between ports of entry?
nan: That's really what we're talking about.
nan: And so I want to go back to the amendment and talk about what it means to be five.
nan: What the CDC advises in terms of where kids should be at the age of five.
nan: They should be able to count to 10.
nan: They should name some numbers between one and five when you point to them.
nan: They should use words about time like yesterday, tomorrow, morning, or night.
nan: They should write some letters in their name.
nan: They should be able to pay attention for five to 10 minutes during activities.
nan: And they should be able to tell a story that they heard or made up with at least two events.
nan: These are the kids that we're talking about exempting.
nan: And keep in mind, that's by age five.
nan: But this amendment would, and this amendment would exempt all kids under age five.
nan: So what does the CDC expect from three-year-olds?
nan: Because they would be within this category if they're three.
nan: So by the age of three, a kid should be able to calm down within 10 minutes after you leave them, like at daycare drop-off.
nan: They should be able to draw a circle when you show them how.
nan: They should avoid touching hot objects like a stove when you warn them.
nan: They should use a fork, and they should say their first name when asked.
nan: So again, this is the age that we're talking about exempting.
nan: Now, some of you may seem to wonder, like, why would a kid under five actually be coming across the border alone?
nan: And by the way, not all kids are dropped off by coyotes.
nan: There are, these, we're talking about kids who are coming across the border in many different scenarios.
nan: But I want to tell you the story of Juan, a five-year-old boy from Honduras.
nan: When Juan's mother was a child, she was sold to and raped by a human trafficker.
nan: She escaped up to four years and she gave birth to Juan.
nan: Protecting Juan became her sole mission.
nan: She was determined to make sure that he never experienced the abuse that she experienced as a child.
nan: When a man started stalking and threatening her life, Juan's mom fled to ensure her safety in Juan's.
nan: They arrived at the US-Mexico border in October of 2019.
nan: She didn't get a chance to tell their story, so they were returned to Matamoros under Remain in Mexico, just like this bill would require.
nan: They stayed in a refugee camp near the border where the area was controlled by a cartel.
nan: One day near the camp's entrance, a group of men tried to kidnap Juan's mom as she was returning from a convenience store with Juan.
nan: During the scuffle, Juan injured his cheek, leaving a scar on his face, and afterwards, Juan's mom was afraid of leaving the camp.
nan: Eventually, Juan fell ill because of extreme weather conditions.
nan: He lost his appetite.
nan: And Juan's mom couldn't find the medical attention he needed, felt trapped in the camp, terrified that the cartels would try to kidnap her again.
nan: And her worst fears were realized when she and Juan were kidnapped for two months.
nan: The kidnapping was incredibly traumatizing for Juan.
nan: And so the mother made the heartbreaking decision to send him across the border to seek protection alone.
nan: And like so many other parents and caregivers, Juan's mother had the impossible choice, truly impossible choice, between sending her child to safety or risking trauma or even death at the hands of the cartel.
nan: I know there are a lot of colleagues here who are parents.
nan: like I am.
nan: And I just have to ask you, what would you choose if it was choosing between saving your child or risking your child's death?
nan: I think most of us would choose to save our children, even if it meant being without them.
nan: And that's a heartbreaking choice.
nan: And I don't think it's a choice that we should force parents to make.
nan: So I'm hoping that my colleagues will show some compassion for kids under the age of five and exempt them from this cruel
nan: extreme unworkable bill that as written would block kids under the age of five from seeking safety if they come between ports.
nan: You don't want to accept all unaccompanied kids?
nan: Well, these are ones that may not be able to count to 10 yet, can't spell their own name.
nan: We're talking about kids under five.
nan: I hope my colleagues will have a small piece of humanity and agree to this amendment and I yield back, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Gentle lady yields back.
nan: Question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlelady from Pennsylvania.
nan: All those in favor say aye.
nan: Aye.
nan: Those opposed, no, no.
nan: No.
nan: In the chair, the no's have it.
nan: Request a roll call.
nan: The roll call being requested.
nan: The clerk will call the roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Jordan votes no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Issa votes no.
nan: Mr. Bup.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. Tiffany.
nan: Mr. Massey votes no.
nan: Mr. Mr. Massey votes no.
nan: Mr. Roy votes no.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Spartz votes no.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no.
nan: Mr. Benz.
nan: Mr. Klein.
nan: Mr. Klein votes no.
nan: Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Mr. Nells?
nan: Mr. Nells votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Kiley votes no.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hageman.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hageman votes no.
nan: Mr. Moran.
nan: Mr. Moran votes no.
nan: Mr. Hunt.
nan: Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Frye votes no.
nan: Mr. Nadler.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Nader votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgren.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lofgren votes, aye, Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee.
nan: Mr. Jackson Lee votes, aye.
nan: Mr. Cohen.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Schiff?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Schiff votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cicillini?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cicillini votes.
nan: I, Mr. Swalwell.
nan: Mr. Mr. Loo.
nan: Mr. Mr. Gaya.
nan: Votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cahoea votes.
nan: I, Mr. Cahillin.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan votes.
nan: I, Mr. Negoose.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath?
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ross.
nan: Ms.
nan: Bush.
nan: Mr. Ivy.
nan: Mr. Ivy votes aye.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Van Drew, you're not recorded.
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Mr. Gates, you are not recorded.
nan: Mr. Gates, votes now.
nan: Gentleman from Texas.
nan: Mr. Gooden, votes no.
nan: Gentleman from Arizona.
nan: Ms.
nan: Biggs?
nan: You voted?
nan: Oh, okay.
nan: Clerk roll report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 13 eyes and 22 no.
nan: The amendment is not approved.
nan: Gentlelady from Pennsylvania is recognized.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
nan: Clerk will report.
nan: Gentleman from Florida reserves a point of board.
nan: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Ms.
nan: Scanlon.
nan: The amendment will be considered as read.
nan: The general lady from Pennsylvania is recognized for five minutes to speak on the amendment.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Undeterred.
nan: by my Republican colleagues failure to vote for the last two amendments that I offered, which would protect vulnerable, unaccompanied children from exploitation, abuse, kidnapping, or other violence, and the conditions that would otherwise entitle someone to claim asylum on their behalf, I've again edited my amendment to exempt unaccompanied children under the age of one.
nan: from Title I of this bill, which would preclude otherwise all such children from being able to claim asylum.
nan: That means we're talking about infants.
nan: And I really hope my colleagues will support this amendment to protect infants from harmful and violence situations.
nan: I encourage all my colleagues to vote in favor.
nan: Yes.
nan: To vote in favor of this amendment and- Would the general lady yield?
nan: I'm sorry, I just yielded to
nan: Ms.
nan: Gaiapal.
nan: Thank you.
nan: So now we're talking about just exempting kids under one-year-old.
nan: Infants under age one don't come very often, but they do come.
nan: And when they do, it's often with an older sibling, and both are classified as unaccompanied children.
nan: And in some cases, they may be coming with their moms who themselves are unaccompanied children.
nan: Regardless of who they come with, they are simply trying to seek safety.
nan: And I just want to go back to 2018 when I went to Tijuana to meet with people who were seeking asylum.
nan: And I remember meeting with a boy who had been shot in both knees by gangs.
nan: And he broke down describing how much he missed his mother and how his mother had just begged him not to return back to her because his life was at such risk back home.
nan: So we've heard stories of the terrible choices that parents and caregivers are making in these circumstances.
nan: Look, nobody wants to send their kids alone.
nan: They are making these impossible decisions to separate from their beloved children and to help their, they're doing it to help their kids escape violence and possibly death to give their kids the best chance, not just for a better life, but frankly, just to live, just to be able to live.
nan: And I don't know that there's, I think there's very few parents who wouldn't do anything to protect their kids' ability to live.
nan: So today, now we're debating a bill that would restrict asylum for everyone and we're talking about how we should treat infants.
nan: This is what happens when you pursue an enforcement only strategy and you restrict asylum completely as this cruel, extreme, unworkable bill would do.
nan: We're left arguing about whether or not we're going to protect infants.
nan: which is in my mind just un-American.
nan: It is true that our immigration system is broken, and I do think we should be pursuing common sense solutions that would strengthen the legal immigration system, a system that would allow for family unity, which has been a cornerstone of U.S.
nan: immigration policy, a system that would provide an orderly immigration process that allows us to attract the best and the brightest, provide needed workers to ensure that food isn't rotting in the fields, that American families
nan: have access to a decent standard of living, an asylum and refugee system that allows America to continue to be a beacon of hope to those fleeing totalitarian regimes, violence, and war around the world.
nan: And I just hope that we can work together to invest in sending countries to give them the resources that they need
nan: to fight corruption and the conditions that force people to flee for their lives.
nan: And I want to just, since I have a minute still, I wanted to just mention that in the last discussion between, or a couple discussions ago between Mr. Roy and Ms.
nan: Escobar, I think my colleague from, this colleague from Texas mentioned that, you know, we need to do one first and then the other.
nan: And I just wanted to say to the chairman, to Mr. Roy through the chairman, that
nan: The budget for immigration and customs enforcement and customs and border protection has grown nearly 300% from 9 billion in 2003 to over 26 billion today.
nan: And I remember in 2012 when the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Bill passed the United States Senate with 67 bipartisan votes.
nan: I was on the outside at the time.
nan: I was not in Congress.
nan: I was advocating for comprehensive immigration reform.
nan: I really didn't like the enormous amounts of money that were being put.
nan: into border security, but I held my nose because I felt like, okay, let's do both of these things.
nan: If you're telling me that we can reform the system, have legal pathways, finally in once in 30 decades, be able to update the system to meet the needs of our country,
nan: and support our economy and support our families, then this is the price I have to pay, then I was willing to do that.
nan: But we've already put in more money into the border than what was in that bill, and we still haven't reformed the legal system, and it hasn't worked.
nan: I yield back.
nan: I withdraw my point of order.
nan: The only yields back, gentlemen, withdraws his point of order.
nan: The gentleman from California is recognized.
nan: It astonishes me that my colleagues simply don't seem to be able to understand that the only way to stop this trafficking
nan: is to return these children to their homes and villages.
nan: The cartels are paid thousands of dollars to bring them to the United States.
nan: If they're returned home, the cartels business simply dries up.
nan: No one's going to pay them thousands of dollars to deliver these kids to the United States if they're immediately turned back.
nan: That's the only way to stop this human tragedy.
nan: We've tried it the Democrats way for many years now.
nan: And the trafficking keeps growing and growing and growing.
nan: And there's a simple reason that's happening because it works.
nan: Did the gentleman yield?
nan: Do my colleagues, no, I don't.
nan: Do my colleagues actually believe that it's compassionate to create the conditions that are encouraging this massive and growing trafficking of minors?
nan: Do they think it is compassionate to create the conditions that are leading to this exploitation?
nan: Their compassionate policies are what is causing and driving this human tragedy.
nan: Return these children safely home.
nan: The trafficking will stop.
nan: That's what every border patrol agent that I've talked to on this subject tells me.
nan: And it's about time we gave that a try.
nan: That's what this bill does.
nan: And I'll be happy to yield to my friend from Arizona, Mr. Biggs.
nan: I thank the gentleman for yielding to me.
nan: I hear that that placing, that the tough choice of placing your child, an infant, and now they want to say an infant under the age of one, you want to place a baby into the hands and control of the most barbarous, inhumane monsters.
nan: And you want to incentivize them to take those children
nan: to somewhere in the Arizona desert, where the only way to get there is literally walking for miles, sometimes days.
nan: And you really think that the safest place for that baby is with these cartels, these coyotes.
nan: Let's just give you an example of
nan: the coyotes and how respectful of human life they are.
nan: Three days ago, in a water park.
nan: In Mexico, cartel gunmen came in and killed seven people, including a seven-year-old girl.
nan: Face the reality.
nan: The reality is when you incentivize, which this amendment does, and my colleagues across the aisle, your policies do,
nan: wholesale support of these cartels, which by the way, Biden officials themselves came in and testified that the cartels control our border.
nan: We don't control our border.
nan: And you say, we want these babies here.
nan: Do you think that they're gonna nurture and care for those babies as they're going along?
nan: The answer is no, they are not.
nan: They don't care, they become a commodity.
nan: That's how ruthless and inhumane they are.
nan: Every person is a commodity to them.
nan: It's a product that they're selling the service of moving them.
nan: Same with drugs or any other contraband.
nan: That's how inhumane they are.
nan: I am stunned that we have to repeat this debate
nan: I have been, we've been condescended to as if we don't understand.
nan: I'm begging you if you live north of the Mason-Dixon line, go down to the border more often.
nan: Go down and talk to the border patrol agents.
nan: Go down and wander around without the agents and drive along as I have done many times and come across groups of individuals before the border patrol get there.
nan: I'm telling you.
nan: These vicious, ruthless individuals are not who we should be incentivizing to take care of one year old and younger babies.
nan: That, Mr. Chairman, I yield back to the gentleman from California.
nan: The gentleman yields back, who seeks recognition.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee, recognized.
nan: The gentleman from Louisiana, thank you.
nan: I strike the last word.
nan: Let me,
nan: I think I can make a national proclamation in this committee.
nan: There is not one person that has a love affair with cartels.
nan: I denounce cartels.
nan: They have the greatest of disdain from all of us.
nan: And I don't want them to be in business.
nan: And between the work of the ATF, the DOJ,
nan: and other federal law enforcement and local communities, we're fighting the cartels.
nan: They're wrecking habit on their home country.
nan: They're killing Americans.
nan: So this is not a happy days for cartels.
nan: This is the reality of desperate people whose babies are going to be sent.
nan: And I just have,
nan: A distinctive definition that I'd like to, human smuggling, the horrors of human smuggling, human trafficking, which is being used over and over again in sex trafficking, can be done right here in the United States.
nan: We're trafficking in states across state borders.
nan: The horrors of the cartel is a huge market of human smuggling.
nan: And these babies are caught up in it.
nan: And what would make my colleagues on the other side of the aisle think that this provision that Ms.
nan: Scanlan has is going to counter or incentivize the behavior of the cartels.
nan: It is not.
nan: Cartels are never going to tell the people they're smuggling any of the laws that you think that you might pass.
nan: Plain and simple.
nan: They're going to continue.
nan: they're dastardly work, we have to deal with the criminal element of the cartels.
nan: But I think it relates to innocent children, and particularly under five, and Congresswoman Jayapal read, as I was listening to it, I was pained.
nan: Because the list she gave little ones, there were many who would not even be able to answer those questions.
nan: We already tried to get representation, so they'll be without representation.
nan: then they need to have the, and let me clarify the Congresswoman's, she's made it very clear, but let me repeat, it gives them the opportunity, the right to apply for asylum.
nan: It does not say that they will be granted.
nan: But the way the legislation is written now, those unaccompanied children will not even be given the opportunity for asylum and for the life of me,
nan: I'm still looking for the process that the Trump administration used to reunite those stolen children with their families.
nan: I'm still looking for that process.
nan: I'm still looking for the system that didn't allow children never to be found again.
nan: And I think there are about a thousand still not reunite with their family.
nan: I'm looking for that in the Trump administration.
nan: Maybe someone can show me that protocol.
nan: So the question is, how do you expect?
nan: to get from a scattered vicious cartel, nowhere to be found, scattered persons who allegedly were around the children as they traveled, to even find their country of origin and the address in the mountains of where a family might be.
nan: Or that family might be themselves, victim of murder, decapitation, they might be scattered,
nan: That might be the last act that that mother or father did was to take my child to safety.
nan: And of course, with no guarantee the child would arrive safely.
nan: But all the disincentives that my friends are saying on the other side of the aisle that they will do with this legislation.
nan: Again, remember my question.
nan: I'm trying to understand the mission and the implementation of the underlying legislation.
nan: But putting that aside, I don't see any
nan: infrastructure to send the children back to their home countries and their families.
nan: Maybe someone will say that they've got it embedded in this bill.
nan: They've got a telephone book for each country or they've got a digital address book for each country.
nan: They've got their parents in a digital, if you will, infrastructure of names.
nan: The parents checked off their names.
nan: They've got a document.
nan: Their passport is in their back pocket.
nan: I don't know how you're gonna send them back.
nan: Give us some relief, please, and pass the Scanlan Amendment that deals with these children under five.
nan: I yield back.
nan: General Lady yields back.
nan: Anyone else seek recognition?
nan: Mr. Chairman.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Yeah, I mean, like the interest of time, I don't want to belabor, but the facts matter about what we're actually doing.
nan: I mean, under the TVPRA language, right, the whole point of that that
nan: applies before what we're trying to do here to Mexico and Canada.
nan: All we're trying to do is extend it beyond.
nan: And where children get screened, they get screened to insured to see if they're trafficked.
nan: They get screened for fear.
nan: And that's the law to protect them.
nan: That was the whole point of TVPRA, the trafficking victims protection, right?
nan: That's what that was for.
nan: That's what we're trying to do is extend that protection.
nan: That's the point.
nan: And now what we're talking about here, okay, what are we trying to do with asylum?
nan: We're trying to direct the asylum claims.
nan: We're trying to get the asylum claims to the place where they can best be processed in the safest manner, rather than continuing to encourage the scourge of allowing the cartels to move them in all manners of places,
nan: through all manners of dangerous terrain and in a way that is completely not in the best interest of any children who might be being trafficked in that way.
nan: That's the point.
nan: Get them to get to a port of entry if you're going to be in a position to claim asylum.
nan: And again, we're dealing with the amendment here, which is clearly an amendment to prove a point, right?
nan: Having now gone through the under 18, the under 5 and now the infant,
nan: But the infant example, which the infant, of course, him or herself is not claiming asylum, right?
nan: What would happen here is you'd have an infant with someone who's got the infant.
nan: And what's the goal?
nan: The goal is, as is our, the law would allow under this bill, that the person carrying the infant, probably another child in that case, but it may not be.
nan: It may be trafficked by some member of a cartel, we don't know.
nan: You get the infant, in this case, the person in this amendment, you get the infant, that infant would be taken care of, then the goal under this would be that that infant we would try to find under the UAC provisions that we've got in our bill to make sure they get home safely.
nan: That's the goal, again, to reunify.
nan: And I would note to the gentlelady from Texas, talking about 1,000 that,
nan: have not been put back to, you know, reunified.
nan: I don't know if that date is accurate, but I'll take her word.
nan: How about the 85,000 that are missing right now in the New York Times?
nan: 85,000, right?
nan: It's just a complete and absurd joke.
nan: It is absolutely ridiculous what we're hearing from our colleagues on the other side of the aisle.
nan: Your current system has 85,000 kids they can't find.
nan: What in the world?
nan: It's the New York Times.
nan: It's not Fox News.
nan: And we're sitting here talking about a fiction, a fiction of saying there's an infant rolling through somewhere outside of Eagle Pass right now, begging to claim asylum.
nan: The infant is not doing that.
nan: This is absurd.
nan: You know it's absurd.
nan: We have language here put forward in good faith trying to figure out how to stop what I see in this chart behind me where unaccompanied children are spiking through the roof, have been doing so since Democrats have been in charge in the administration.
nan: The only blip is when you had a Republican in charge.
nan: You had kids on top of train cars, getting abused by cartels.
nan: You've got numbers spiking through the roof since President Biden has been in office.
nan: And all we want to simply do is say, we want to get them home to their families.
nan: We want to get them to a place where they can go to a port of entry so we can take care of them.
nan: And we're being traded by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle with where are the thousand that aren't being reunified.
nan: Well, go find the 85,000 that we don't even know where the hell they are under the Biden administration.
nan: I yield back.
nan: The gentleman yields back.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Who else seek circumcision?
nan: General lady from Pennsylvania, Ms.
nan: Dean.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I moved to strike the last word.
nan: General ladies recognized, five minutes.
nan: Thank you.
nan: And I won't need all five minutes.
nan: I rise in support of this amendment.
nan: And I will wonder when we leave here, whatever this vote is, how anybody would justify a no vote.
nan: We're talking about innocent, unaccompanied infants.
nan: Infants under one year of age.
nan: You all want to talk about being abused by cartels.
nan: And then we just want to get them safely home.
nan: You fail to talk about the origin of their journey.
nan: What is unsafe where they are coming from?
nan: This fiction of, we just want to get them safely home.
nan: So I ask some of you on the other side of the aisle for this amendment, we are talking about children under the age of one.
nan: For the parents over there, for the grandparents over there, will you find it in your heart to say, of course, they could be eligible for asylum.
nan: I don't know how you could defend such a vote of no.
nan: And with that, I yield back.
nan: General Lee yields back.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts, seek recognition.
nan: We'll just strike the last word.
nan: General Lee is recognized.
nan: It's not according to me, but actually criminal justice theory.
nan: The crime triangle identifies three factors that create a criminal offense.
nan: Target, victim, desire, criminal, and opportunity.
nan: And if you want to break up the triangle, you know, to give them an opportunity.
nan: And that's what we try to do in by this legislation.
nan: What this amendment does, it creates perverse incentive where we actually create a target victim and their children under age of one infants.
nan: This is really perverse incentive and what we're doing is really atrocity to these young children.
nan: to create a specific victim of these children that are infants and not you're going to be enslaved, but these cartels to make money.
nan: So it's bad enough, we created so many opportunities that they're becoming so wealthy that they're now controlled both sides of the border, but we actually target children and give them victims with opportunities under years of one.
nan: I think this purpose and incentive cannot be accepted, and I think we need to talk about how we can secure this border
nan: on a bipartisan basis, deal with drug cartels on the bipartisan basis, and look at the ways how we can actually do immigration reform.
nan: We have a lot of talk, but this is a life and death situation.
nan: And we're talking about little children, and I hope we can stop playing politics with people's life.
nan: I yield back.
nan: I yelled to the gentleman from California.
nan: I just wanted to add one other thing.
nan: The specific question presented by Ms.
nan: Scanlon's amendment is whether a child, in this case a babe in arms, should be delivered at a port of entry with all of the support medical facilities that are immediately available at our ports of entry, or whether that a babe in arms should be delivered across the wilderness of the open border.
nan: As I've been saying, the cartel only makes money when the child's delivered to American authorities.
nan: Do you want that child delivered to those authorities at a port of entry?
nan: Or do you want that child delivered across the harsh conditions of the desolate southern border?
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan seems to prefer them to be delivered in the desert.
nan: Would the gentleman yield?
nan: I find that bizarre.
nan: Well, it's the gentlelady's time.
nan: And I yield back.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Thank you.
nan: Of course no one wants babies delivered by cartels in the middle of the desert.
nan: That's what your amendment does.
nan: But there's an obsession here with the idea that unaccompanied minors are only coming with cartels, as Ms.
nan: Jaya Paul was talking about.
nan: Often they're coming with relatives, sometimes with their siblings.
nan: That's still an unaccompanied minor as long as they don't have a parent or guardian.
nan: Do you want to encourage them to enter through a port of entry or across the desolate wilderness?
nan: And you're choosing the desolate wilderness.
nan: That's bizarre to me.
nan: Absolutely not.
nan: Yes, I yield to a gentleman from Arizona.
nan: I thank the gentlelady for the yielding.
nan: And I have to, I just have to,
nan: disabuse, anybody who's watching this, who's not in this bizarro world that we're in, when someone just said that there are people coming across our border, particularly between the ports of entry, without the cartels being involved, it just be speaks.
nan: They're listening to the experts.
nan: They're not listening to the people who work there.
nan: They're not listening to the Biden administration.
nan: The CBP Chief Ortiz said the cartels control the border.
nan: Every sector chief, including Ms.
nan: Chavez, who's got moved from El Paso down, she's now down in Rio Grande.
nan: She says the cartels control everything on the border.
nan: Everybody who comes across is controlled by the cartel.
nan: Would the gentleman yield?
nan: And no, no, not just I'm on a roll.
nan: You, you're, you slowed my role there.
nan: I was going.
nan: Look, when we start talking about what's happening, the cartels control.
nan: And this amendment is talking about between ports of entry.
nan: That's what the emphasis of this amendment is.
nan: Who do you think is going to control between the ports of entry?
nan: It's the cartel.
nan: I brought it up before just because I was just there a couple days ago.
nan: in the Tucson sector, in the middle of nowhere, on this dusty, dirty, really rugged road in the middle of this desert, high desert, Tucson's high desert.
nan: And what do we see?
nan: We see these people coming.
nan: The only way they get there is walking for hours.
nan: How did you get together?
nan: You don't know each other.
nan: You're from all over Mexico.
nan: The cartels put us together.
nan: The coyotes put us together.
nan: Why didn't you go to El Paso or Del Rio?
nan: Because didn't you want to go to Austin?
nan: The coyote told us we had to come here.
nan: Anybody crossing that border is subject to control by the cartel.
nan: Don't kid yourself, please.
nan: I yield back to the gentlelady's from Indiana.
nan: Thank you.
nan: My town is expired.
nan: I yield back.
nan: General ladies' time's expired.
nan: Who seeks recognition?
nan: Mr. Cicillini?
nan: Recognize?
nan: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I moved to strike the last word.
nan: Recognized for five minutes.
nan: You know, when I read this bill, I'll be honest, it made me sick to my stomach.
nan: It's clear that we need immigration reform in this country, and Democrats have repeatedly put forth strong bills to accomplish that, to increase legal pathways, to secure the border, to reduce our case backlogs, and to streamline our asylum process.
nan: But this bill, this haphazard extreme package that we're debating today is not reform.
nan: It's a MAGA conspiracy-driven xenophobic messaging bill.
nan: And in fact, even members of the Republican Party have opposed it calling it, and I quote, extreme anti-American and not Christian.
nan: It wouldn't reform an immigration system, it would decimate it.
nan: America's refugee program was once called the crown jewel of this country's humanitarian efforts by the evangelical community.
nan: It's at the heart of the message inscribed on the Statue of Liberty.
nan: It's part of our national identity as Americans that this is a place where one can seek refuge.
nan: And we know that immigrants have made this country what it is today, strengthening our society, our economy, and our culture.
nan: But today, Republicans are doing their best to eviscerate these systems.
nan: This legislation would establish extreme and inhumane detention policies, mandating that families with children seeking asylum be detained indefinitely for attempting to enter the United States without a visa.
nan: It would dismantle the parole powers that have been used consistently since the Eisenhower administration to save countless lives and dramatically reduce illegal border crossings.
nan: It would subject all unaccompanied children to an even more draconian version
nan: of the expedited removal process currently applicable to unaccompanied children from Mexico, which will lead to increased detention and deportation of unaccompanied children.
nan: It's pretty clear that this plan is straight out of the Trump administration's immigration playbook, illegal, immoral, and doomed to fail.
nan: This won't make our country any safer or solve the refugee crisis, and it certainly won't boost our economy.
nan: But it will wreak havoc.
nan: Make no mistake, I and so many of my colleagues, are committed to an immigration system that guarantees asylum rights and is humane and efficient and reflective of our American values.
nan: Democrats have always stood ready to work side by side with our Republican colleagues about making serious, strong, humane immigration reforms to make it a system that we as Americans can be proud of.
nan: But this legislation does not do that.
nan: The amendment, however, makes an improvement on a really terrible piece of legislation.
nan: So I urge my colleagues to support the amendment.
nan: I thank Congressman Scanlan for offering it and I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Does anyone seek recognition?
nan: The question occurs in the amendment offered by the gentlelady from Pennsylvania.
nan: Those in favor say aye.
nan: Aye.
nan: Those opposed, no.
nan: No.
nan: No.
nan: In the opinion of the chair, the knows have it.
nan: The amendment is not agreed to.
nan: Request a recorded vote.
nan: Recorded vote is requested.
nan: The clerk will call the roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan.
nan: Mr. Jordan, that's no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Issa?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Issa votes no.
nan: Mr. Buck.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. Tiffany.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Tiffany votes no.
nan: Mr. Mr. Massey votes no.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no.
nan: Mr. Bentz.
nan: Mr. Benz votes no.
nan: Mr. Klein.
nan: Mr. Klein, Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Gooden, Mr. Gooden, that's no.
nan: Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Mr. Nell's.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Nell's votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Hunt.
nan: Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Frye votes no.
nan: Mr. Nadler?
nan: Mr. Nadler?
nan: Mr. Nadler votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgram?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lofgren votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Jackson Lee votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cohen.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia.
nan: Mr. Schiff?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Sissif votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Sissolini.
nan: Mr. Sissolini votes.
nan: Mr. Lillow.
nan: Mr. Loo.
nan: Mr. Ms.
nan: Jaya.
nan: Mr.
nan: Mr. Correa votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan votes aye.
nan: Mr. Naguze.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath?
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ross.
nan: Ms.
nan: Bush.
nan: Mr. Ivy?
nan: Mr. Ivy votes aye.
nan: Are there any members who wish to vote?
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts?
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparks, you are not recorded.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts votes no.
nan: Mr. Roy?
nan: Mr. Roy, you're not recorded.
nan: Mr. Roy votes no.
nan: Any other members?
nan: The Clerk will report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 12 eyes and 21 knows.
nan: The notice of it, the amendment is not agreed to.
nan: What purpose is gentlelady seek recognition?
nan: I have an amendment at the desk.
nan: The clerk will report the amendment.
nan: The gentleman from California reserves a point order and the clerk will report the amendment.
nan: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee.
nan: Without objection, the amendment will be considered as read and the gentlewoman is recognized to explain her amendment.
nan: As I often do, I'm offering a common sense amendment.
nan: to Title V to create a critical exemption for temporary protective status holders who overstay their visas.
nan: For the first time in our immigration system, for what has been sometimes errors, sickness, death, that the overstays have occurred.
nan: And I'm sure that if there is any level of the immigrant community listening,
nan: They have stories to tell about temporary protective status.
nan: In fact, I had someone approached me today about Nepal because of the conditions in various countries and this person was working.
nan: But for the first time in history, Title V would make overstaying a visa a crime.
nan: It is important to remember that if a person overstays a visa, they're already subject to removal.
nan: The addition of a criminal penalty is both cruel and unnecessary.
nan: The most cruel to them who want to stay is to be removed.
nan: The bill is extraordinarily punitive with a far-reaching implications and may go beyond what my colleagues intended unless they wanted to make following current immigration a crime punishable by up to six months in prison and a fine of up to 1,000.
nan: Unfortunately, this title is poorly written and has significant problems.
nan: I certainly hope that these are simply drafting errors.
nan: The bill has no exceptions or flexibility for non-immigrants who do nothing other than either depart the United States or change to a different non-immigrant status.
nan: There is also no intent on knowing requirement to violate this new proposed crime.
nan: There's no mens rare, meaning that an individual can make
nan: an honest mistake about when they need to depart the country by physically being incapable of departing the country.
nan: That's what I've said, ill, family ill, or unable to return because of circumstances beyond their control in their home country.
nan: There's enormous number of individuals who are engaged in this particular dilemma.
nan: They're not criminals.
nan: Just one example
nan: of these very bizarre outcomes.
nan: If this bill had been in place last year, a Ukrainian student would have broken the law and faced a fine and jail if they had been approved for temporary protective status after Russia invaded their home and then stayed in the US in temporary protective status for longer than the validity of their student visa.
nan: Our immigration system needs reform.
nan: We're absolutely interested in bold new ideas to fix it.
nan: But this clearly is not one.
nan: And most people won't know it exists.
nan: They'll just become criminals.
nan: Perhaps if the majority had held a hearing on this topic, as they are supposed to under the regular order, they love so much in past sessions, they would understand the substantial problems with this legislation.
nan: Perhaps we could have explored more realistic changes to our legal visa system and really come to agreement that all of us might agree to.
nan: but to be able or to provide for what will be unknowing overstayed and take it out of the criminal justice system of America, which calls on us to prove intent and have no basis of proving intent, just somebody who overstayed.
nan: Just somebody who overstayed.
nan: I'd hate to say it, I come from a state and many of us come from states,
nan: innocent car crashes.
nan: Just happens.
nan: As if we are fender bender, that we can think about it, all we can think about is our insurance rates going up.
nan: If it is catastrophic, we're being carried off in an ambulance, or God forbid, we are carried off in a worse way than that.
nan: Accident, and I truly mean it.
nan: not someone who is maliciously using their vehicle and you make them criminals just because they had an accident.
nan: And worry about the basis of the accident, sliding on the ice, sliding on snow, heavy rainstorm, they are now criminals.
nan: That is what's happening with the TPS that you're now criminalizing simply for an overstay.
nan: saddened that we got no opportunity for hearings.
nan: We now have a criminal offense.
nan: I remember when Republicans work with us under Chairman Goodlap to bring down the amount of criminal offenses.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I'm going to yield back.
nan: I'm hoping you will join me in supporting my amendment.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Yes, ma'am.
nan: Time's expired.
nan: Anyone else seek recognition?
nan: Mr. Chairman?
nan: I do, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Does the gentleman insist on the board of order?
nan: I would draw the point of order and would like to speak on the moment.
nan: Point of orders withdrawn.
nan: Let me recognize Mr. McClintock speak.
nan: Go ahead.
nan: Oh, okay.
nan: Mr. Chairman, for years, the Democrats have complained that there's too much intention made to illegal immigration across the border.
nan: Since before they allowed our borders to completely collapse, about half the illegal immigrants were visa overstays, and they had a point.
nan: In fact, President Biden identified visa overstays as being a large part of the illegal immigrant population in the United States.
nan: A visa is as important as a border, and this bill simply treats visa overstays the same as illegal border crossings.
nan: We're told, well, someone will knowingly or unknowingly violate it and run afoul in law.
nan: Well, that's ridiculous.
nan: Everyone with the visa knows how long the visa lasts it's on the visa.
nan: Everyone with the visa knows they're required to leave when that visa is expired.
nan: But ignoring that law is no different that ignoring the law that forbids unauthorized border crossings.
nan: Overstays are a problem.
nan: They're a problem that should be treated the same as the other laws that enforce our nation's borders.
nan: That's all this bill does.
nan: This is what the Democrats were complaining about for many years.
nan: We are acknowledging the validity of the points they made then by equalizing the treatment of the laws.
nan: And I'll be happy to yield to Mr. Moran.
nan: Mr. Moran.
nan: The gentleman yields to Mr. Moran.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: Just to point out a couple things.
nan: First of all, in 2013, since it's Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee that raises this question.
nan: In 2013, at a Judiciary Committee hearing, she said, quote, America's borders will only be secure when we address not only those who walk through the desert to come here, but also those who arrived in this country through our front door.
nan: Those were her words, which the line is saying today in one moment.
nan: Thank you, sir.
nan: And I'll have to yield back to.
nan: the original.
nan: I will also make mention that my portion of the bill already addresses what has been raised by this amendment, where it says with the period of stay authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security, this period of authorized stay, that term of art, which is referred to in a May 6 2009 memo
nan: by the U.S.
nan: citizenship and immigration services already addresses the concerns raised by the gentle lady.
nan: And so not only is it already addressed, we're talking about some things that you already agree with in 2013.
nan: So I would yield back to the gentleman.
nan: Mr. McClintock, who has the time?
nan: Who's time was it?
nan: Oh, thank you.
nan: Well,
nan: I'm so glad that my good friend has taken me down history lane.
nan: I was a ranking member on the immigration subcommittee that, as I recall, and I stand by those words, but be reminded that I did not then add, and we should criminalize the oversays.
nan: I indicated that oversays certainly are worth addressing.
nan: And as I indicated in my remarks today in support of this amendment, they are subject to removal.
nan: What I'm saying is that you are asking for it to be criminalized with no showing of knowing or intent.
nan: As we say, no mens rea.
nan: And I understand as a lawyer and being on a misdemeanor bench, if you will, that you have to show intent men's rate in many criminal situations.
nan: So I'm concerned that you are criminalizing overstayed
nan: Because someone may be in a hospital and that's why they're overstaying.
nan: They may be subject to removal.
nan: Somebody may be attending a funeral.
nan: That's why they overstayed.
nan: Reclaiming my time.
nan: I'll yield back.
nan: Thank you.
nan: That is where a case-by-case parole would be appropriate.
nan: But again, the gentlelady can't have it both ways.
nan: Her exact words, and we agree with them.
nan: A small handful of those who overstay their visas may also pose a threat, as I mentioned earlier, as it relates to the 9-11 hijackers.
nan: There are about a half million people who break our immigration laws by overstaying their visas.
nan: The General Lady was right then.
nan: She's wrong now.
nan: This bill corrects the problem that she correctly identified so long ago.
nan: Better late than never.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: We never forget your words, Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee.
nan: I stand by my words, my friend.
nan: I never said criminalized.
nan: They are subject to remove her.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Maryland is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I move to strike the last word.
nan: The gentleman is recognized.
nan: I speak in support of the gentlelady's amendment.
nan: I share the same concern about the criminalization of this provision.
nan: My understanding is that this criminal penalty is unique to this type of legislation.
nan: It makes it more punitive.
nan: And in addition, I think
nan: the absence of any kind of requirement with respect to whether it's mental intent or mental state or intent, essentially creates a strict liability scenario, which is I'm struggling to think of a scenario where that is present in the criminal law.
nan: And I agree with the gentlelady about the concerns of a scenario where could be an honest mistake.
nan: Even if you reject that though, physical incapability, hospitalization, pandemic, you know, we had multiple, not the entire court system shut down, for example, during COVID, during particular stretches.
nan: This language doesn't leave any exception or, you know, any ability to address those types of scenarios that might be beyond the control of the
nan: the person who overstays the visa.
nan: So I would certainly speak in support, and I'd ask for my colleagues to support this amendment.
nan: I think it's a reasonable amendment and makes sense and avoids criminalizing language that has never been criminalized before.
nan: With that, I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Does anyone else seek recognition?
nan: If not, the question occurs on the amendment offered by the gentlelady from Texas.
nan: Those in favor say aye.
nan: Those opposed say no, no.
nan: In the opinion of the chair, the no's have it, the amendment is not agreed to.
nan: Roll call.
nan: A recorded vote is requested.
nan: The clerk will call the roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan.
nan: Mr. Jordan votes no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Issa votes no.
nan: Mr. Buck.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. Tiffany.
nan: Mr. Massey.
nan: Mr. Massey votes no.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Spartz.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts votes no.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no.
nan: Mr. Benz.
nan: Mr.
nan: Mr. Gooden?
nan: Mr. Gooden votes no.
nan: Mr. Van Drew?
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Mr. Nell's?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Nell's votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Kiley votes no.
nan: Mr. Haley?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Haley votes no.
nan: Mr. Hageman.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hagan?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Higman votes no.
nan: Mr. Hunt.
nan: Mr. Frye?
nan: Mr. Frye votes no.
nan: Mr. Nadler?
nan: Mr. Nadler votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgren?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Loughgren votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee votes.
nan: I'm Mr. Cohen.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia.
nan: Mr. Schiff.
nan: Mr. Schiff votes.
nan: I. Mr. Cicillini.
nan: Mr. Cicelyne votes.
nan: Mr. Swallow.
nan: Mr. Liu.
nan: Ms.
nan: Giappal.
nan: Mr. Aye.
nan: Mr. Pall.
nan: Mr. Cajapal.
nan: Yes.
nan: Mr. Craya votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cawall votes.
nan: I. Mr. Negoose.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath votes.
nan: I. Ms.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Escobar votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ross?
nan: Ms.
nan: Bush.
nan: Mr. Ivy?
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Ivy votes aye.
nan: Is any other member wish to vote?
nan: Mr. Mr. gentleman from Virginia?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Klein votes no.
nan: Mr. Gates?
nan: Mr. Gates, you are not recorded.
nan: Mr. Gates votes no.
nan: Any other members?
nan: The clerk will report.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 12 eyes and 21 knows.
nan: The nose have it and the amendment is not agreed to.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee, do you seek recognition?
nan: I do.
nan: I have an amendment at the desk, men's rape.
nan: The clerk will report the amendment.
nan: I reserve a point of order.
nan: Gentleman reserves, point of order.
nan: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute.
nan: Without objection, the amendment will be considered as read.
nan: The gentlewoman is recognized to explain her amendment.
nan: I have with all due deference and respect, the majority attempts to weave its way through a very complex set of laws and life experiences, two distinct things, of course, complex laws and life experiences that migrants have and others who fight to come to this country.
nan: that many at this table may not have experienced.
nan: I tried to offer a common sense amendment again in trying to uncomplicate what is a maze of bills that I'm still trying to understand.
nan: I am adding and would like to add under Title V, the Visa Oversays Penalties Act, a mens rea requirements such that in order to be criminally liable,
nan: It fits into the scheme of our justice system.
nan: That's all I'm asking.
nan: A person must knowingly and willingly overstay their visa.
nan: Title V will make overstaying a visa a crime.
nan: And I can just give thousands upon thousands of innocent families, students, people under medical care, various other crisis and catastrophes.
nan: People have lost their documents and hurricanes, fires,
nan: tornadoes, and they are in the country for the first time in our history, we're making their overstay of crime.
nan: Remember now, my colleagues, you do have the penalty of removal.
nan: Remember that.
nan: It is important to remember that a person overstays and are subject to removal.
nan: I say that twice.
nan: The addition of a criminal penalty is both cruel and unnecessary.
nan: This bill is extraordinarily punitive.
nan: It changes all aspects of immigration law
nan: and moves them over to what we call the death now.
nan: You don't have any out.
nan: And this has far-reaching implications that may go beyond what my colleagues intended.
nan: The bill has no exceptions of flexibility when it comes to overstaying.
nan: That's why my amendment as a requirement that a person would only be guilty of this crime if they knowingly and will only overstayed their visa.
nan: And currently there is no intent or knowing requirement to violate this new
nan: proposed crime, meaning that an individual can make an honest mistake about when they need to depart the country to be physically incapable of departing the country on unable to return because of circumstances beyond their control.
nan: I give an example.
nan: A person has a medical emergency in the United States and cannot leave within 10 days of their visa expiring would violate this new law and face jail time and a penalty.
nan: A natural disaster.
nan: I've already said that.
nan: An individual returning for home
nan: for more than 10 days from returning for more than 10 days past the expiration date because they were in a natural disaster.
nan: Our immigration system needs reforming.
nan: My friends have quoted me in 2013 to be very clear.
nan: Those comments clearly were my intent, but please note I did not offer an amendment or a bill to criminalize.
nan: I said we must pay attention to it and address the question.
nan: And there are many ways to do that.
nan: At the same time, we must be able to walk and chew gun at the same time and have a comprehensive immigration reform that addresses legal immigration so that people can come into the country legally or access asylum or access other provisions under a legal immigration system.
nan: We have failed to do that.
nan: We have failed this nation.
nan: And we have failed those who come out of desperation.
nan: And so I would hope that again, with no hearing, we have put a bill forward that doesn't give any option for being criminalized.
nan: And no intent must be shown.
nan: And I frankly don't know criminal bills, crime bills, criminal bills that can be charged or individuals charged with a crime.
nan: And you minimally don't have to have a level of intent.
nan: I think my friend said basically strict liability.
nan: If you are shoplifting, you have to show intent.
nan: You may be arguing I was mistaken.
nan: I thought I was going out.
nan: I thought I'd already paid for it.
nan: That will be determined by the court.
nan: But the point is, you have the right to argue you had no intent.
nan: It was in your bag by mistake.
nan: You had a bunch of items.
nan: You paid for one.
nan: You didn't know that you didn't pay for the other.
nan: So I'm shocked and I would ask my colleagues to support the Jackson Lee Amendment, which indicates there should be a mens reid behind a criminalization of our immigration laws here to four have not been criminalized.
nan: With that.
nan: General ladies times expire.
nan: That I yield.
nan: And she yields.
nan: Anyone seek recognition?
nan: I do.
nan: Does a gentleman insist upon his point of order?
nan: The point of order is withdrawn and Mr. Miranda is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
nan: A couple of points on what my colleague from Texas mentioned just a few minutes ago.
nan: First, when it relates to mens rea, let me give an example of an area of the law where this would be very analogous.
nan: You have a situation where somebody's on probation.
nan: They've been given terms and conditions of probation.
nan: This happens all the time in state and federal
nan: courts across America, they understand those terms and conditions of probation.
nan: If they violate those terms and conditions, let's just say, for instance, in Texas, one of those is oftentimes you can't go in a place that serves alcohol.
nan: And I know a number of people on probation in Texas that end up in a restaurant where they have forgotten that it also has a bar and all of a sudden they violated their probation and they get their probation revoked.
nan: It's not a result of the fact that they intended to go into a place necessarily where there was alcohol, but they did.
nan: They violated their terms and conditions.
nan: It happens all across America, and I can give 10 other examples or 20 other examples of terms and conditions for probation in particular, where when you violate it, you violate it and you go to jail.
nan: That's just what happens.
nan: If we had, that's the first point.
nan: If we had
nan: If we had the law that as it currently exists, if it was deterring this kind of behavior, then there might not be the need to enhance the penalties, both civil and criminal under this provision, but that's not what's happening.
nan: We see a visa overstays all the time and it needs to be addressed.
nan: And apparently what's on the books now is not working to deter this behavior.
nan: We need to raise that behavior.
nan: Third, I'll also say that I know you can give from time to time examples
nan: that would create a scenario where you might find some sympathy for a person that may have violated.
nan: If that's the case, you certainly always have prosecutorial discretion as to whether or not to bring that crime or not.
nan: That happens again in all kinds of cases across America where prosecutors under the Department of Justice look at this and say, you know what, in this instance, we're not going to prosecute this crime because of the unique facts of this case.
nan: That happens.
nan: That's what prosecutors are for.
nan: So to say that this particular provision, which is, again, to try to stop something that's happening on a recurring basis is inappropriate because maybe there's one example out there or two examples out there that we might find that this might seem harsh is just simply not the wrong direction to go because we need to stop this behavior.
nan: In order to do so, we need stronger penalties.
nan: With that, I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Who else seeks recognition?
nan: Mr. Chairman.
nan: Gentleman from Maryland is recognized.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: I appreciate my friend's comments.
nan: I know he's a former judge, and I respect his legal acumen.
nan: I would point out, however, that a violation of probation is not a new criminal offense.
nan: So the way probation revocation would work is you committed whatever the crime is, you were convicted of it,
nan: And as part of that plea agreement or as part of your release after you served a certain term, you're put out on probation.
nan: And if you violate the condition of that release, that's not a new crime.
nan: That's just the judge saying, hey, I let you out after three years.
nan: I could have given you five years.
nan: I told you when you left out that if you violated your probation, you're going to get the whole five.
nan: That's not a new.
nan: That's not a new crime.
nan: So that doesn't really apply to the scenario here because there's no mens rea requirement with respect to that issue.
nan: With respect to prosecutorial discretion, I would say to my friend that under that reasoning, you wouldn't need an intent or knowledge requirement in any criminal statute.
nan: You could just say prosecutors always got discretion with respect to prosecuting any crime.
nan: There's no crime that a prosecutor's
nan: required to prosecute.
nan: Well, I can think of one exception, but that only applies because we're Congress.
nan: But other than that, prosecutorial discretion never negates the need for proof of intent, mens rea, or something that differentiates civil and criminal penalties.
nan: And I think that's part of what's missing here.
nan: And that's why I support the gentlelady's amendment.
nan: On top of that, you know, we were just puzzling it over a minute ago.
nan: I'm trying to think if it's actually constitutional to have a criminal provision where you can hold somebody, you can incarcerate someone where there's no proof of intent that the person intended to break the law or commit the offense.
nan: You know, we were thinking about maybe, you know, depraved heart scenarios, but
nan: This statute language here doesn't require anything approaching a depraved heart scenario where the conduct is so reckless, you know, that it's, you know, we can criminalize it.
nan: You must have known that what you were doing was wrong.
nan: Here it's just if you're over 10 days, you face criminal penalties.
nan: So I think for those reasons, the gentlelady's amendment should be supported by our colleagues.
nan: And with that, I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Who else seeks recognition?
nan: No one seeks recognition.
nan: The question occurs on the amendment offered by the general lady from Texas.
nan: All those in favor say aye.
nan: All those opposed say no, no.
nan: No.
nan: The opinion of the chair of the nose have it.
nan: The amendment is not agreed to.
nan: Recorded vote is requested.
nan: The clerk will call the roll.
nan: Mr. Jordan.
nan: Mr. Jordan votes no.
nan: Mr. Issa.
nan: Mr. Buck.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Gates votes.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Louisiana votes no.
nan: Mr. Biggs.
nan: Mr. Biggs votes no.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: Mr. McClintock votes no.
nan: Mr. Tiffany?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Tiffney votes no.
nan: Mr. Massey votes no.
nan: Mr. Roy.
nan: Mr. Bishop.
nan: Ms.
nan: Sparts?
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Spartz votes no.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald.
nan: Mr. Fitzgerald votes no.
nan: Mr. Benz.
nan: Mr.
nan: Mr. Klein votes no, Mr. Gooden.
nan: Mr. Gooden votes no.
nan: Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Mr. Van Drew votes no.
nan: Mr. Nell's.
nan: No.
nan: Mr. Nell's votes no.
nan: Mr. Moore votes no.
nan: Mr. Kiley.
nan: Mr. Kiley votes no.
nan: Ms.
nan: Hageman.
nan: No.
nan: Ms.
nan: Haganman votes no.
nan: Mr. Moran.
nan: Mr. Moran votes no.
nan: Mr. Moran.
nan: Mr. Lee votes no.
nan: Mr. Hunt.
nan: Mr. Fry.
nan: Mr. Frye votes no.
nan: Mr. Nadler.
nan: Mr. Nadler votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lofgren?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Lofgren votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jackson Lee votes aye.
nan: Mr. Cohen.
nan: Mr. Johnson of Georgia.
nan: Mr. Schiff?
nan: Mr. Schiff votes.
nan: Aye.
nan: Mr. Cicillini.
nan: Mr. Cicillini votes.
nan: Mr. Swallow.
nan: Mr. Mr. Lou.
nan: Mr. Jaya Paul.
nan: Ms.
nan: Jaya Paul votes.
nan: I. Mr. Correa.
nan: Mr. Correa votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan.
nan: Ms.
nan: Scanlan votes aye.
nan: Mr. Ngoos.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath?
nan: Aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: McBath votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Dean votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Eskabar votes aye.
nan: Ms.
nan: Ross.
nan: Ms.
nan: Bush.
nan: Mr. Ivy.
nan: Mr. Ivy votes aye.
nan: Do any other members wish to vote?
nan: If not, the clerk will report.
nan: Mr. Issa, you are not recorded.
nan: Mr. Issa votes no.
nan: Mr. Mr. Chairman, there are two sides.
nan: Mr. Chairman, there are 12 eyes and 22 knows.
nan: The no's not.
nan: The no's have it.
nan: The amendment is not agreed to who seeks recognition.
nan: The gentleman from California seeks recognition.
nan: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
nan: The clerk will report the amendment.
nan: Reserve, a point order.
nan: The point of order is reserved.
nan: Mr. McClintock.
nan: Amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by Mr. McClintock offered by Mr. With that objection, the amendment will be considered as read and the gentleman is recognized to explain his amendment.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
nan: This amendment is simple.
nan: It would exempt individuals fleeing communist and totalitarian regimes from section 104.
nan: We should exempt people fleeing communist and totalitarian dictatorships from this legislation and allow them to apply for asylum as our laws were intended.
nan: The underlying bill would bar individuals who cross the border between ports of entry from seeking asylum.
nan: This means individuals would be forced to wait in Mexico to cross the border and be processed.
nan: That would make people fleeing communist and totalitarian regimes, sitting ducks for the cartels for exploitation, abuse, kidnapping, or murder.
nan: We have seen what happens when people are forced to wait in Mexico for too long.
nan: Under the Remain in Mexico program, there were over 1,500 publicly reported cases of murder, rape, torture, kidnapping, and other violent assaults against migrants returned under the Remain and Mexico program.
nan: In fact, just last month, we saw what happens when vulnerable migrants are put at risk.
nan: when migrants in an immigration center in Ciadad Juarez were left to be burned alive.
nan: This is not the fate we want for anyone, and we don't want people fleeing totalitarian dictatorships, like people fleeing Venezuela or Cuba or Nicaragua or Russia or China or Vietnam or elsewhere to have to face those kind of dangers.
nan: There was a time when my colleagues on the other side of the aisle
nan: claimed to oppose communism and totalitarian dictatorships and welcomed people fleeing those horrible regimes.
nan: The underlying bill suggests otherwise.
nan: I urge my colleagues to join in this amendment so that those fleeing asylum are not put at additional, those fleeing persecution by these communist regimes are not put at additional risk by having to wait for long periods of time in dangerous places before they can
nan: lawfully apply for asylum.
nan: Will the gentleman yield for a question?
nan: With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll yield.
nan: Will you yield for the clarifying question?
nan: You could seek her own recognition.
nan: I'm going to yield back to the chair.
nan: The gentleman yields back.
nan: Does the gentleman seek recognition?
nan: I guess so.
nan: The point of order is withdrawn, and Mr. Gates is recognized.
nan: Thank you.
nan: I yield to the sponsor, if the sponsor would be willing to engage in a colloquy with me.
nan: Would you consider the kingdom of Saudi Arabia to be a totalitarian dictatorship?
nan: Mr. Gates, I gave the same answer that Representative Lofgren gave before.
nan: These are not new terms of art.
nan: These are the terms used in current law.
nan: And so we are merely applying current law to protect people.
nan: And in particular, in this case, those that are fleeing communist dictatorships.
nan: If the gentleman, his objection is that this definition is overbroad.
nan: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, you, you, you yield to me.
nan: I'm asking you clarify the question.
nan: If you would yield.
nan: If you would respond to my question, which is, if this amendment is narrowed to communist dictatorships, will you support it?
nan: Well, again, Mr. Schiff, I'm just trying to understand what your amendment says.
nan: Yes, your answer is no, then, Mr. Gates.
nan: That you perhaps assume too much, my friend, because you, you, you, you, you, I'm asking what you mean by totalitarian dictatorship and just whether.
nan: the kingdom of Saudi Arabia would qualify.
nan: It's just a yes or no question.
nan: Well, I certainly think- Forgive me for not knowing the list that Ms.
nan: Lawfrey.
nan: Would you like an answer, Mr. Gates?
nan: I certainly consider Saudi Arabia to be a dictatorship.
nan: Yes, I do.
nan: A totalitarian one?
nan: But, well,
nan: Mr. Gates, my question is, if your problem with this amendment is you think it's overbroad.
nan: Mr. Schiff, I'm not stating a problem with the amendment.
nan: I am merely asking you what it means.
nan: My question, then, Mr. Gates is, what is the difference between a dictatorship and a totalitarian dictatorship?
nan: My question, Mr. Gates, unless Saudi Arabia, there is a difference between totalitarianism and dictatorship.
nan: Sure, I'm asking to explain the differences of the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
nan: That's really the question, Mr. Gates, unless, unless, Mr. Gates, this is just a rhetorical exercise.
nan: It's a serious effort to understand whether or not your amendment applies to the- If your question is sincere, which I know assumes too much.
nan: But if it is, then will you support the amendment confined to communist dictatorships?
nan: Yes or no, Mr. Gates?
nan: I'm probably not going to support the amendment either way.
nan: That doesn't matter.
nan: Well, there you go.
nan: I don't want to know what it means.
nan: Then what about all the rhetoric you constantly espouse about standing up to communism?
nan: Here you're saying, someone fleeing communism, if they're interdicted between ports,
nan: then they will not qualify.
nan: Right.
nan: Doesn't matter what kind of regime.
nan: There is a mechanism by which one seeks asylum for those very reasons, and it's not showing up and creating an entire loophole in the asylum system.
nan: So this whole thing about Saudi Arabia is just a red herring, right?
nan: I'm just curious to know whether or not you consider them qualifying under the bill.
nan: And I have, I would appreciate.
nan: I would appreciate.
nan: Consistency.
nan: Mr. Schiff, people on the border don't get to have a debate like this.
nan: Like you're not.
nan: It's not your time, Mr. Schiff.
nan: I'm reclaiming my time.
nan: Mr. Gates has the time.
nan: Mr. Gates has the time.
nan: Mr. Gates has the time.
nan: Look, on the border, someone doesn't get to have this joyful little colloquy with you.
nan: A border patrol agent has to look at someone and assess whether or not they're going to let them in or not.
nan: And I'm just for clarity, even though I'm not going to support your amendment.
nan: I'm gonna support the bill in the unlikely event that your amendment were to be adopted.
nan: I simply want to know if someone encounters someone from the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, whether or not the exception that your amendment affords would allow that or not.
nan: As I said, I'm using the existing definition, Mr. Gates.
nan: My question to you is, my question to you is, will you live up to your anti-communist rhetoric?
nan: Will you live up to your anti-communist rhetoric, or is it just a lot of talk from you, Mr. Gates?
nan: I don't think you have to blow a hole through the asylum system to oppose communism.
nan: I guess it's just a lot of talk with you.
nan: Nothing more than a lot of empty talk.
nan: I just want to know if the kingdom of Saudi Arabia is included or excluded.
nan: How is this so difficult for you?
nan: Do you have any compassion for the people who would have to make this assessment on the border?
nan: I just want to know.
nan: Would you care for me to read the code section to you?
nan: Gladly.
nan: The existence of a single political party organized on a dictatorial basis was so close an identity between such party and its policies and the government policies of the country in which it exists.
nan: And the party and the government constitute an indistinguishable unit and the forcible suppression of opposition to such party.
nan: That is how the code currently defines a totalitarian party and a totalitarian dictatorship.
nan: Would you define them that way or not, Adam?
nan: So if you wanted to know, read the code.
nan: But the question is not whether you can read the code.
nan: The question is whether you can't say whether it applies to a specific country.
nan: The question is, do you stand?
nan: Do you stand for anything?
nan: Does anything you say mean anything to you?
nan: I merely am seeking your own ability to define your own amendment.
nan: Are you really so soft on communism now, Mr. Gates?
nan: I am shocked.
nan: Soft on communism?
nan: No soft on definitions.
nan: You're soft on definitions.
nan: You're soft on definitions.
nan: You're not on definition.
nan: You're not going to have this.
nan: You would accept you.
nan: You would prosecute.
nan: You would prosecute.
nan: You would deny asylum.
nan: Someone fleeing communism.
nan: Really because they won't.
nan: A border patrol agent is going to have this.
nan: Mercifully, the gentleman is out of time.
nan: Mercifully, the gentleman is out of time.
nan: Okay.
nan: Woo.
nan: Well, should we have unanimous consent to continue?
nan: No, no.
nan: Everybody's out of time.
nan: Everybody's out of time.
nan: Does anyone seek recognition?
nan: I recognize myself to oppose the amendment.
nan: I just want to say as much as I was enjoying that colloquy?
nan: A colloquy.
nan: I do want to say very seriously to Mr. Schiff, we all understand what you're trying to do here.
nan: And by the definition you just read, this is a rough estimate, but I think you just exempted about a billion people worldwide, about a billion people from our rules here.
nan: And we oppose this amendment because obviously it would do nothing to fix the catastrophe at the southwest border.
nan: It would make it worse.
nan: Even the Biden administration,
nan: has enacted port of entry policies because they recognize that we've got to get a hold of this.
nan: And so if you're gonna, if you're gonna lump in all communists and totalitarian states and dictatorships around the globe, obviously the catastrophe becomes exponentially worse.
nan: We oppose communism, we oppose totalitarianism,
nan: And the way we do that once again to repeat what has been said so many times here today is that we have a strong border, strong sovereignty, and a strong America, because it is the perception of a strong America that keeps all those totalitarians and dictators and tyrants at bay.
nan: I will yield to Mr. Roy.
nan: I appreciate the chairman yielding.
nan: I would just make a couple of points.
nan: Right now at the border, cartels pay particularly, or require a particularly large payment.
nan: from China in particular and communist countries generally.
nan: These people are paying cartels tens of thousand dollars, at some point it's $40,000 to $60,000 ahead.
nan: So if we were to go down the road that my colleagues are suggesting, what we were going to do is create an even bigger market for targeting those particular individuals and trying to rake in profit for cartels to move more people from China.
nan: But also remind you that FY22, China had 68,000 legal immigrants.
nan: Cube had 31,300 legal immigrants.
nan: Vietnam had 23,800 legal immigrants.
nan: We have paths for people to pursue the legal process.
nan: We have paths for people to pursue asylum.
nan: What we are doing here, I think, would just make the situation fundamentally worse with respect to empowering cartels to make extraordinary profits.
nan: trying to move a particular set of individuals rather than another set of individuals.
nan: We've had an enormous strain at the border already.
nan: According to CBP, we had 4,366 migrants from China encountered by Border Patrol officials on the southern border from October 22 to February 23.
nan: That compares with the 421 who were encountered during the same period between 21 and 22.
nan: We know what the problem is.
nan: Failed policies of this administration, we're working to try to fix those policies, and our colleagues on the side of the aisle do not wish to join in.
nan: I yield back to the chair.
nan: Yield to Mr. McClintock.
nan: Mr. Chairman, we get right back in all these discussions to the same central issue.
nan: Asylum is for those who are persecuted by their government as the general lady from Washington so expertly and clearly noted just a few hours ago.
nan: Living in a failed state is not grounds for asylum.
nan: Fear of violence is not grounds for asylum.
nan: Living in poverty is not grounds for asylum and living under communist regimes is not grounds for asylum.
nan: The gentleman from Louisiana is absolutely correct.
nan: Actually, little more, there are currently an estimated one and a half billion people living under communist regimes.
nan: Mr. Schiff seems to believe that every one of them has the right to immigrate to the United States.
nan: That is absurd.
nan: The system is glutted with fraudulent claims that have nothing to do with governmental persecution.
nan: And those who are making those claims do so for a simple reason.
nan: It gets them under this administration and in contravention of law, instant admission to the country, indefinite work authorization, indefinite residency, and an awful lot of free stuff.
nan: That's what's driving this.
nan: And that is what is crowding out the legitimate claims from people who are actually being persecuted by their governments and have a rightful claim to asylum.
nan: I yield back.
nan: Very well said.
nan: Yield the bounce of my time back.
nan: Ms.
nan: Cisleini seeks recognition.
nan: Move to strike the last word.
nan: The gentleman is recognized.
nan: I yield first to Mr. Schiff.
nan: I thank the gentleman for yielding.
nan: I just want to see if I can wrap my head around the opposition to this amendment.
nan: I guess the opposition began by saying, this is too broad.
nan: This is too broad.
nan: The definition of the code is too broad because it might apply to Saudi Arabia.
nan: Well, God forbid, we should be concerned with dissidents fleeing the Saudi regime, dissidents being hunted down around the world.
nan: I guess my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would find it preferable if the dissidents are cut up into little pieces in a Turkish diplomatic facility or a Saudi facility in Turkey.
nan: Yeah, there are Saudis who are also persecuted and put at risk.
nan: And some are captured and some are forced to- Why was that so hard to say?
nan: May I please finish?
nan: I haven't yielded, Mr. Chairman.
nan: There are Saudis who are deserving of protection from the regime.
nan: They are fleeing.
nan: There are in fact Saudis who were American residents, who were journalists, who were cut to pieces with the with the participation of the crown prince.
nan: But if your objection is, no, we have to protect the kingdom at all costs because, of course, the kingdom has been so good to us.
nan: They've constricted oil sales because they're so good to us.
nan: We really need to look after the Saudis and God forbid we should be concerned about people fleeing Saudi Arabia.
nan: But if that was the concern of this was too broad, offered to narrow it so that the amendment would precisely match the rhetoric on the other side,
nan: this grave concern you so often expressed for those fleeing Venezuela and Cuba and Vietnam and elsewhere.
nan: But no, no, that's no good either.
nan: Is that maybe too narrow?
nan: Are there too many communist regimes, some that you're okay with and some you're not okay with?
nan: I don't understand the opposition, except for the fact that, well, I guess all the talk about being tough on communist regimes
nan: Um, doesn't seem to matter, uh, when we're talking about the political value of the border security argument.
nan: Um, and with that, I will yield back to my colleague, Mr. Cicillini.
nan: I thank the gentleman.
nan: And you know, I rise in strong support of this amendment.
nan: One of the things that I think we have been most proud of as a country is that America has been a place where people who are fleeing.
nan: repressive governments, dictatorships, communism can come to America and have a reasonable opportunity to enter the United States.
nan: This amendment preserves that.
nan: And I think we're living in a time where we're seeing a democratic recession around the world and where democracies are being tested.
nan: And America has to remain a place where people can come if they're fleeing these kinds of repressive governments.
nan: And I know it's, maybe it's just coincidence, but I know now, as we're about to enter another presidential campaign, the Republican frontrunner, and recently indicted former president, likes to discuss the great relationships he has with the war criminal Vladimir Putin and President Xi.
nan: And we just learned a conservative Supreme Court justice was recently exposed for spending 25 years palling around with a billionaire with a prize collection of Nazi memorabilia, Hitler's art, and even a signed copy of Mon Conf.
nan: And so I don't know, begins to raise a question about
nan: the willingness of our colleagues to stand up strongly against these kinds of totalitarian and communist leaders around the world and remain a safe haven for people fleeing those kinds of governments.
nan: So if we pass this bill in its current form, you will ban people who are fleeing those from coming in other than imports of entry.
nan: Mr. Schiff's amendment provides some relief, but for goodness sakes, can't we agree?
nan: that when we say those things that America's a place you can come when you're fleeing communism and totalitarianism, that we mean it?
nan: That it's not just a speech to give to your constituents back home to make you look like you're a patriot and you support American democracy and you stand up against tyranny.
nan: Vote that way.
nan: Let's prove to them in a bipartisan way.
nan: We mean it when we say that.
nan: And I thank Mr. Schiff for giving us that opportunity and I yield back.
nan: Gentleman yields back.
nan: Mr. Big, seek your recognition.
nan: Yes, uh, move, strike the last word.
nan: Gentlemen, recognize.
nan: Thank you so much.
nan: I'll yield to the gentleman from Florida.
nan: Mr. Gates.
nan: Mr. Chairman, the great irony is that I agree with Mr. Schiff as to Saudi Arabia.
nan: I just wanted to hear him say it.
nan: I am frustrated deeply by the actions of the kingdom as a totalitarian regime.
nan: I think that particularly I am aggrieved at what they did.
nan: in Pensacola where a Saudi officer opened fired on my constituents, killing three of them and injuring others.
nan: And so don't just assume that because I'm asking a question about the vagueness of a term that I disagree with the underlying point that might be expressed on the side of the aisle.
nan: It was what the committee just witnessed was recalcitrance as a replacement for reason.
nan: in our discourse.
nan: And the critique of the language as vague is clear because while you're able to cite documents that cite other criteria, what we have observed having gone to the border is that oftentimes these are real time flashpoint decisions that have to be made at scale because you get hundreds of people showing up and a border patrol agent or two having to process them.
nan: So I wasn't attempting to disagree with Mr. Sheff.
nan: Will the gentleman yield?
nan: Well, unfortunately, Mr. Biggs has the time.
nan: You know what?
nan: Mr. Chairman, I could have had the opportunity to have a more extended discussion with Mr. Schiff, had he been willing to yield some of his time.
nan: But instead, I guess we had to go through all of this, but I'll yield back to Mr. Biggs.
nan: Thanks.
nan: I yield to the gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. Van Drew.
nan: Thank you, Mr. Biggs.
nan: You know what?
nan: A couple thoughts.
nan: I know there's a lot of attorneys in here and we're doing, we have a lot of fancy language and that's all good.
nan: I'm a country dentist, all right?
nan: And let me tell you what people are thinking.
nan: They are thinking that we have a lot
