speaker_1: Finance Committee will come to order. We meet today to consider a pending nomination before the committee, Mr. David Johnson. We're going to use the statement now to make statements on the nominee. I'm going to make a statement followed by my colleague from Idaho, then followed by any other finance member who wishes to make a statement. At that point, if we have a quorum, which I do not believe we will have, we would proceed to the vote. If we don't have a quorum, we'll recess until the next roll call vote on the Senate floor when the committee will reconvene off the floor to have the vote. Senator Crapo and I have talked about this, and this is an acceptable process for both sides. So for my very brief statement before I yield to my colleague, I would say first a quick set of comments with respect to Mr. Johnson's background. This is a nonpartisan down the middle nominee for a position that requires exactly that type of individual. Mr. Johnson currently serves as the Assistant Inspector General for investigations at the Department of Veterans Affairs. which is a key oversight role at the second largest federal agency. He previously served as a federal prosecutor in a few different positions. That includes several years as assistant chief in the fraud section of the criminal division of the Department of Justice. He also served as assistant United States Attorney and Healthcare Fraud Coordinator at the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia. Independent oversight of the IRS, in my view, is in the best interest of all our taxpayers. This is a challenging job by any measure. The Treasury Department has a separate Inspector General, but tax issues and the IRS require their own special focus. TIGTA, as it's known in the tax policy vernacular, is all about good government and protecting taxpayer dollars at the IRS. It helps improve tax administration and fights waste, fraud, and abuse. Those are priorities for members on both sides of the dais here. The committee depends on TIGTA to provide the public with unbiased information and nonpartisan oversight to help us do our jobs. It is my view that Mr. Johnson is highly qualified, and I thought we had a very helpful hearing a few weeks ago. I want that understood that I strongly support his nomination. I would urge all my colleagues to do the same. Let me turn it over now to Senator Crapo. If other colleagues wish to make opening remarks, they can, or otherwise we'll adjourn until our vote off the floor. Senator Crapo.
speaker_0: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Johnson has been nominated to serve as Inspector General for Tax Administration at the Department of Treasury. I agree with the Chairman. Mr. Johnson has strong qualifications and oversight experience, and I appreciate his service at the Department of Veterans Affairs and his willingness to serve today. I was encouraged to hear Mr. Johnson's commitment to distinguishing allegations of waste, fraud, and abuse from disagreements in policy, ensuring that TIGTA holds accountable any individual who unlawfully discloses taxpayer information, and providing the Senate Finance Committee with timely and thorough updates of investigations permitted by law. I was also encouraged to hear that Mr. Johnson and I share common ground on the need for the IRS to keep taxpayer information confidential and for personal information to not be used against taxpayers to advance political agendas. However, that being said, given that the new Congress will be sworn in in only less than a month from today, and the new administration will take office just shortly thereafter, it's my opinion that these newly elected officials deserve the opportunity themselves to evaluate this appointment. Therefore, today I will not be able to support Mr. Johnson's nomination. That said, I look forward to working with Mr. Johnson if he is confirmed in addressing the concerns that my colleagues and I have raised throughout this process and ensuring that TIGTA continues to provide essential oversight of the IRS and our nation's system.
speaker_1: Thank you, Senator Crapo. So now procedurally, we need to ask about objections. At this point, unless there is an objection, the committee will recess and reconvene to vote on the nominations following the first vote today at 1130 a.m. off the Senate floor in the president's room, in the president's room, which is number 219. Without objection, it is so ordered, the committee stands in recess.
